---
layout: post
title: 135. Candy
---
### Question
There are _N_ children standing in a line. Each child is assigned a rating
value.

You are giving candies to these children subjected to the following
requirements:

  * Each child must have at least one candy.
  * Children with a higher rating get more candies than their neighbors.

What is the minimum candies you must give?

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** [1,0,2]
    **Output:** 5
    **Explanation:** You can allocate to the first, second and third child with 2, 1, 2 candies respectively.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** [1,2,2]
    **Output:** 4
    **Explanation:** You can allocate to the first, second and third child with 1, 2, 1 candies respectively.
                 The third child gets 1 candy because it satisfies the above two conditions.
    

### Solution 1
    
    
       int candy(vector<int> &ratings)
     {
    	 int size=ratings.size();
    	 if(size<=1)
    		 return size;
    	 vector<int> num(size,1);
    	 for (int i = 1; i < size; i++)
    	 {
    		 if(ratings[i]>ratings[i-1])
    			 num[i]=num[i-1]+1;
    	 }
    	 for (int i= size-1; i>0 ; i--)
    	 {
    		 if(ratings[i-1]>ratings[i])
    			 num[i-1]=max(num[i]+1,num[i-1]);
    	 }
    	 int result=0;
    	 for (int i = 0; i < size; i++)
    	 {
    		 result+=num[i];
    		// cout<<num[i]<<" ";
    	 }
    	 return result;
     }


### Solution 2
Hi guys!

This solution picks each element from the input array only once. First, we
give a candy to the first child. Then for each child we have three cases:

  1. His/her rating is equal to the previous one -> give 1 candy.
  2. His/her rating is greater than the previous one -> give him (previous + 1) candies.
  3. His/her rating is less than the previous one -> don't know what to do yet, let's just count the number of such consequent cases.

When we enter 1 or 2 condition we can check our count from 3. If it's not zero
then we know that we were descending before and we have everything to update
our total candies amount: number of children in descending sequence of
raitings - coundDown, number of candies given at peak - prev (we don't update
prev when descending). Total number of candies for "descending" children can
be found through arithmetic progression formula (1+2+...+countDown). Plus we
need to update our peak child if his number of candies is less then or equal
to countDown.

Here's a pretty concise code below.

* * *
    
    
    public class Solution {
        public int candy(int[] ratings) {
            if (ratings == null || ratings.length == 0) return 0;
            int total = 1, prev = 1, countDown = 0;
            for (int i = 1; i < ratings.length; i++) {
                if (ratings[i] >= ratings[i-1]) {
                    if (countDown > 0) {
                        total += countDown*(countDown+1)/2; // arithmetic progression
                        if (countDown >= prev) total += countDown - prev + 1;
                        countDown = 0;
                        prev = 1;
                    }
                    prev = ratings[i] == ratings[i-1] ? 1 : prev+1;
                    total += prev;
                } else countDown++;
            }
            if (countDown > 0) { // if we were descending at the end
                total += countDown*(countDown+1)/2;
                if (countDown >= prev) total += countDown - prev + 1;
            }
            return total;
        }
    }
    

Have a nice coding!


### Solution 3
    
    
    public int candy(int[] ratings) {
        int candies[] = new int[ratings.length];        
        Arrays.fill(candies, 1);// Give each child 1 candy 
        	
        for (int i = 1; i < candies.length; i++){// Scan from left to right, to make sure right higher rated child gets 1 more candy than left lower rated child
            if (ratings[i] > ratings[i - 1]) candies[i] = (candies[i - 1] + 1);
        }
         
        for (int i = candies.length - 2; i >= 0; i--) {// Scan from right to left, to make sure left higher rated child gets 1 more candy than right lower rated child
    	    if (ratings[i] > ratings[i + 1]) candies[i] = Math.max(candies[i], (candies[i + 1] + 1));
        }
        
        int sum = 0;        
        for (int candy : candies)  
        	sum += candy;        
        return sum;
    }



