---
layout: post
title: 488. Zuma Game
---
### Question
Think about Zuma Game. You have a row of balls on the table, colored red(R),
yellow(Y), blue(B), green(G), and white(W). You also have several balls in
your hand.

Each time, you may choose a ball in your hand, and insert it into the row
(including the leftmost place and rightmost place). Then, if there is a group
of 3 or more balls in the same color touching, remove these balls. Keep doing
this until no more balls can be removed.

Find the minimal balls you have to insert to remove all the balls on the
table. If you cannot remove all the balls, output -1.

    
    
     **Examples:**  
    
    **Input:** "WRRBBW", "RB"
    **Output:** -1
    **Explanation:** WRRBBW - > WRR[R]BBW -> WBBW -> WBB[B]W -> WW
    
    **Input:** "WWRRBBWW", "WRBRW"
    **Output:** 2
    **Explanation:** WWRRBBWW - > WWRR[R]BBWW -> WWBBWW -> WWBB[B]WW -> WWWW -> empty
    
    **Input:** "G", "GGGGG"
    **Output:** 2
    **Explanation:** G - > G[G] -> GG[G] -> empty 
    
    **Input:** "RBYYBBRRB", "YRBGB"
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation:** RBYYBBRRB - > RBYY[Y]BBRRB -> RBBBRRB -> RRRB -> B -> B[B] -> BB[B] -> empty 
    

**Note:**  

  1. You may assume that the initial row of balls on the table won’t have any 3 or more consecutive balls with the same color.
  2. The number of balls on the table won't exceed 20, and the string represents these balls is called "board" in the input.
  3. The number of balls in your hand won't exceed 5, and the string represents these balls is called "hand" in the input.
  4. Both input strings will be non-empty and only contain characters 'R','Y','B','G','W'.

### Solution 1
Hi all,

I tried case `"RRWWRRBBRR", "WB"`. The test program gave the expected answer
`-1`. However, I thought the answer might be `2`. Because:

`RRWWRRBBRR -> RRWWRRBBR[W]R -> RRWWRRBB[B]RWR -> RRWWRRRWR -> RRWWWR -> RRR
-> empty`

The possible reason might be the first `[W]` was inserted but not adjacent to
a `W` in the sequence. I read the description twice but didn't find any
condition about it.

Could someone give me some ideas about it?


### Solution 2
Since most top solutions are very long and it's uncomfortable to read, so I
share my shorter solution, and it beats 98% java solution.

My idea is simple and clear. it's just like a DFS or a Backtracking solution.
word is poor, just look the code.

'''  
public class Solution {

    
    
    int MAXCOUNT = 6;   // the max balls you need will not exceed 6 since "The number of balls in your hand won't exceed 5"
    
    public int findMinStep(String board, String hand) {
        int[] handCount = new int[26];
        for (int i = 0; i < hand.length(); ++i) ++handCount[hand.charAt(i) - 'A'];
        int rs = helper(board + "#", handCount);  // append a "#" to avoid special process while j==board.length, make the code shorter.
        return rs == MAXCOUNT ? -1 : rs;
    }
    private int helper(String s, int[] h) {
        s = removeConsecutive(s);     
        if (s.equals("#")) return 0;
        int  rs = MAXCOUNT, need = 0;
        for (int i = 0, j = 0 ; j < s.length(); ++j) {
            if (s.charAt(j) == s.charAt(i)) continue;
            need = 3 - (j - i);     //balls need to remove current consecutive balls.
            if (h[s.charAt(i) - 'A'] >= need) {
                h[s.charAt(i) - 'A'] -= need;
                rs = Math.min(rs, need + helper(s.substring(0, i) + s.substring(j), h));
                h[s.charAt(i) - 'A'] += need;
            }
            i = j;
        }
        return rs;
    }
    //remove consecutive balls longer than 3
    private String removeConsecutive(String board) {
        for (int i = 0, j = 0; j < board.length(); ++j) {
            if (board.charAt(j) == board.charAt(i)) continue;
            if (j - i >= 3) return removeConsecutive(board.substring(0, i) + board.substring(j));
            else i = j;
        }
        return board;
    }
    

}  
'''


### Solution 3
    
    
    public class Solution {
        
        private int aux(String s, int[] c){
            if("".equals(s)) return 0;
    //worst case, every character needs 2 characters; plus one to make it impossible, ;-)
            int res = 2 * s.length() + 1; 
            for(int i = 0; i < s.length();){
                int j = i++;
                while(i < s.length() && s.charAt(i) == s.charAt(j)) i++;
                int inc = 3 - i + j;
                if(c[s.charAt(j)] >= inc){
                    int used = inc <= 0 ? 0 : inc;
                    c[s.charAt(j)] -= used;
                    int temp = aux(s.substring(0, j) + s.substring(i), c);
                    if(temp >= 0) res = Math.min(res, used + temp);
                    c[s.charAt(j)] += used;
                }
            }
            return res == 2 * s.length() + 1 ? -1 : res;
        }
        
        public int findMinStep(String board, String hand) {
            int[] c = new int[128];
            for(char x : hand.toCharArray()){
                c[x]++;
            }
            return  aux(board, c);
        }
    }
    



