---
layout: post
title: 242. Valid Anagram
---
### Question
Given two strings _s_ and _t  _, write a function to determine if _t_ is an
anagram of _s_.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** _s_ = "anagram", _t_ = "nagaram"
    **Output:** true
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** _s_ = "rat", _t_ = "car"
    **Output:** false
    

**Note:**  
You may assume the string contains only lowercase alphabets.

 **Follow up:**  
What if the inputs contain unicode characters? How would you adapt your
solution to such case?

### Solution 1
The idea is simple. It creates a size 26 int arrays as buckets for each letter
in alphabet. It increments the bucket value with String s and decrement with
string t. So if they are anagrams, all buckets should remain with initial
value which is zero. So just checking that and return

    
    
    public class Solution {
        public boolean isAnagram(String s, String t) {
            int[] alphabet = new int[26];
            for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) alphabet[s.charAt(i) - 'a']++;
            for (int i = 0; i < t.length(); i++) alphabet[t.charAt(i) - 'a']--;
            for (int i : alphabet) if (i != 0) return false;
            return true;
        }
    }


### Solution 2
* * *

 **Hash Table**

This idea uses a hash table to record the times of appearances of each letter
in the two strings `s` and `t`. For each letter in `s`, it increases the
counter by `1` while for each letter in `t`, it decreases the counter by `1`.
Finally, all the counters will be `0` if they two are anagrams of each other.

The first implementation uses the built-in `unordered_map` and takes 36 ms.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        bool isAnagram(string s, string t) {
            if (s.length() != t.length()) return false;
            int n = s.length();
            unordered_map<char, int> counts;
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
                counts[s[i]]++;
                counts[t[i]]--;
            }
            for (auto count : counts)
                if (count.second) return false;
            return true;
        }
    };
    

Since the problem statement says that "the string contains only lowercase
alphabets", we can simply use an array to simulate the `unordered_map` and
speed up the code. The following implementation takes 12 ms.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        bool isAnagram(string s, string t) {
            if (s.length() != t.length()) return false;
            int n = s.length();
            int counts[26] = {0};
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) { 
                counts[s[i] - 'a']++;
                counts[t[i] - 'a']--;
            }
            for (int i = 0; i < 26; i++)
                if (counts[i]) return false;
            return true;
        }
    };
    

* * *

**Sorting**

For two anagrams, once they are sorted in a fixed order, they will become the
same. This code is much shorter (this idea can be done in just 1 line using
Python as [here](https://leetcode.com/discuss/49372/python-1-line-
solution-88ms)). However, it takes much longer time --- 76 ms in C++.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        bool isAnagram(string s, string t) { 
            sort(s.begin(), s.end());
            sort(t.begin(), t.end());
            return s == t; 
        }
    };
    


### Solution 3
    
    
    def isAnagram1(self, s, t):
        dic1, dic2 = {}, {}
        for item in s:
            dic1[item] = dic1.get(item, 0) + 1
        for item in t:
            dic2[item] = dic2.get(item, 0) + 1
        return dic1 == dic2
        
    def isAnagram2(self, s, t):
        dic1, dic2 = [0]*26, [0]*26
        for item in s:
            dic1[ord(item)-ord('a')] += 1
        for item in t:
            dic2[ord(item)-ord('a')] += 1
        return dic1 == dic2
        
    def isAnagram3(self, s, t):
        return sorted(s) == sorted(t)



