---
layout: post
title: 319. Bulb Switcher
---
### Question
There are _n_ bulbs that are initially off. You first turn on all the bulbs.
Then, you turn off every second bulb. On the third round, you toggle every
third bulb (turning on if it's off or turning off if it's on). For the _i_ -th
round, you toggle every _i_ bulb. For the _n_ -th round, you only toggle the
last bulb. Find how many bulbs are on after _n_ rounds.

 **Example:**

    
    
     **Input:** 3
    **Output:** 1 
    **Explanation:** 
    At first, the three bulbs are **[off, off, off]**.
    After first round, the three bulbs are **[on, on, on]**.
    After second round, the three bulbs are **[on, off, on]**.
    After third round, the three bulbs are **[on, off, off]**. 
    
    So you should return 1, because there is only one bulb is on.
    

### Solution 1
    
    
     int bulbSwitch(int n) {
        return sqrt(n);
    }
    

A bulb ends up on iff it is switched an odd number of times.

Call them bulb 1 to bulb n. Bulb i is switched in round d if and only if d
divides i. So bulb i ends up on if and only if it has an odd number of
divisors.

Divisors come in pairs, like i=12 has divisors 1 and 12, 2 and 6, and 3 and 4.
Except when i is a square, like 36 has divisors 1 and 36, 2 and 18, 3 and 12,
4 and 9, and double divisor 6. So bulb i ends up on if and only if i is a
square.

 **So just count the square numbers.**

Let R = int(sqrt(n)). That's the root of the largest square in the range
[1,n]. And 1 is the smallest root. So you have the roots from 1 to R, that's R
roots. Which correspond to the R squares. So int(sqrt(n)) is the answer. (C++
does the conversion to int automatically, because of the specified return
type).


### Solution 2
    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int bulbSwitch(int n) {
            return sqrt(n);
        }
    };
    

As we know that there are n bulbs, let's name them as 1, 2, 3, 4, ..., n.

  1. You first turn on all the bulbs.
  2. Then, you turn off every second bulb.(2, 4, 6, ...)
  3. On the third round, you toggle every third bulb.(3, 6, 9, ...)
  4. For the ith round, you toggle every i bulb.(i, 2i, 3i, ...)
  5. For the nth round, you only toggle the last bulb.(n)

* * *

If n > 6, you can find that bulb 6 is toggled in round 2 and 3.

Later, it will also be toggled in round 6, and round 6 will be the last round
when bulb 6 is toggled.

Here, **2,3 and 6 are all _factors_ of 6 (except 1).**

* * *

##  **Prove:**

We can come to the conclusion that **the bulb _i_ is toggled _k_ times.**

Here, _**k**_ is **the number of _i_ 's factors (except 1)**.

 ** _k_ \+ 1** will be **the total number of _i_ 's factors**

* * *

For example:

  *  **Factors of 6: 1, 2, 3, 6 (3 factors except 1, so it will be toggled 3 times)**
  *  **Factors of 7: 1, 7 (1 factors except 1, so it will be toggled once)**  
....

Now, the key problem here is to judge **whether _k_ is _even_ or _odd_.**

* * *

Since **all bulbs are on at the beginning** , we can get:

  *  **If _k_ is _odd_ , the bulb will be _off_ in the end.(after odd times of toggling).**
  *  **If _k_ is _even_ , the bulb i will be _on_ in the end (after even times of toggling).**

As we all know, **a natural number can divided by 1 and itself** , and **all
factors appear _in pairs_**.

 **When we know that _p_ is _i_ 's factor, we are sure _q_ = _i/p_ is also _i_
's factor.**

 **If _i_ has no factor _p_ that makes _p_ = _i/p_ , _k_ \+ 1 is even.**

 **If _i_ has a factor _p_ that makes _p_ = _i/p_ ( _i_ = _p_ ^2, _i_ is a
perfect square of _p_ ), _k_ \+ 1 is odd.**

* * *

So we get that **in the end** :

  * If _**i**_ is a **perfect square** , _k_ \+ 1 is odd, **_k_ is even (bulb _i_ is on)**.
  * If _**i**_ is **NOT** a **perfect square** , _k_ \+ 1 is even, **_k_ is odd (bulb _i_ is off)**.

* * *

We want to find **how many _bulbs_ are on** after _n_ rounds ( **In the end**
).

That means we need to find out **how many _perfect square numbers_ are NO MORE
than _n_**.

The **number of _perfect square numbers_ which are no more than _n_** , is the
**_square root_ of the _maximum perfect square number_ which is NO MORE than
_n_**

* * *

##  **Result:**

The **_square root_ of the _maximum perfect square number_ which is NO MORE
than _n_** is the  
 ** _integer part_ of _sqrt(n)_.**

( **If _i_ = 1, it will NEVER be toggled, _k_ is 0 (even) here which meets the
requirement.** )


### Solution 3
    
    
    int bulbSwitch(int n) {
        int counts = 0;
        
        for (int i=1; i*i<=n; ++i) {
            ++ counts;    
        }
        
        return counts;
    }
    

Explanation:  
A light will be toggled only during the round of its factors, e.g. number 6
light will be toggled at 1,2,3,6 and light 12 will be toggled at 1,2,3,4,6,12.
The final state of a light is on and off only depends on if the number of its
factor is odd or even. If odd, the light is on and if even the light is off.
The number of one number's factor is odd if and only if it is a perfect
square!  
So we will only need to loop to find all the perfect squares that are smaller
than n!



