---
layout: post
title: 883. Car Fleet
---
### Question
`N` cars are going to the same destination along a one lane road.  The
destination is `target` miles away.

Each car `i` has a constant speed `speed[i]` (in miles per hour), and initial
position `position[i]` miles towards the target along the road.

A car can never pass another car ahead of it, but it can catch up to it, and
drive bumper to bumper at the same speed.

The distance between these two cars is ignored - they are assumed to have the
same position.

A _car fleet_ is some non-empty set of cars driving  at the same position and
same speed.  Note that a single car is also a car fleet.

If a car catches up to a car fleet right at the destination point, it will
still be considered as one car fleet.

  
How many car fleets will arrive at the destination?



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** target = 12, position = [10,8,0,5,3], speed = [2,4,1,1,3]
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation** :
    The cars starting at 10 and 8 become a fleet, meeting each other at 12.
    The car starting at 0 doesn't catch up to any other car, so it is a fleet by itself.
    The cars starting at 5 and 3 become a fleet, meeting each other at 6.
    Note that no other cars meet these fleets before the destination, so the answer is 3.
    

  
**Note:**

  1. `0 <= N <= 10 ^ 4`
  2. `0 < target <= 10 ^ 6`
  3. `0 < speed[i] <= 10 ^ 6`
  4. `0 <= position[i] < target`
  5. All initial positions are different.

### Solution 1
##  **Explanation**

Sort cars by the start positions `pos`  
Loop on each car from the end to the beginning  
Calculate its `time` needed to arrive the `target`  
`cur` records the current biggest time (the slowest)

If another car needs less or equal time than `cur`,  
it can catch up this car fleet.

If another car needs more time,  
it will be the new slowest car,  
and becomes the new lead of a car fleet.  
  

##  **Complexity** :

`O(NlogN)` Quick sort the cars by position. (Other sort can be applied)  
`O(N)` One pass for all cars from the end to start (another direction also
works).

`O(N)` Space for sorted cars.  
`O(1)` space is possible if we sort `pos` inplace.  
  

 **Java, use Array**

    
    
         public int carFleet(int target, int[] pos, int[] speed) {
            int N = pos.length, res = 0;
            double[][] cars = new double[N][2];
            for (int i = 0; i < N; ++i)
                cars[i] = new double[] {pos[i], (double)(target - pos[i]) / speed[i]};
            Arrays.sort(cars, (a, b) -> Double.compare(a[0], b[0]));
            double cur = 0;
            for (int i = N - 1; i >= 0 ; --i) {
                if (cars[i][1] > cur) {
                    cur = cars[i][1];
                    res++;
                }
            }
            return res;
        }
    

**Java, use TreeMap:**

    
    
         public int carFleet(int target, int[] pos, int[] speed) {
            TreeMap<Integer, Double> m = new TreeMap<>();
            for (int i = 0; i < pos.length; ++i) m.put(-pos[i], (double)(target - pos[i]) / speed[i]);
            int res = 0; double cur = 0;
            for (double time : m.values()) {
                if (time > cur) {
                    cur = time;
                    res++;
                }
            }
            return res;
        }
    

**C++, use map:**

    
    
         int carFleet(int target, vector<int>& pos, vector<int>& speed) {
            map<int, double> m;
            for (int i = 0; i < pos.size(); i++) m[-pos[i]] = (double)(target - pos[i]) / speed[i];
            int res = 0; double cur = 0;
            for (auto it : m) if (it.second > cur) cur = it.second, res++;
            return res;
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
         def carFleet(self, target, pos, speed):
            time = [float(target - p) / s for p, s in sorted(zip(pos, speed))]
            res = cur = 0
            for t in time[::-1]:
                if t > cur:
                    res += 1
                    cur = t
            return res
    


### Solution 2
If one car catch up the one before it, it means the time it takes to reach the
target is shorter than the one in front(if no blocking).  
For example:  
car A at pos a with speed sa  
car B at pos b with speed sb  
(b < a < target)  
Their distances to the target are (target-a) and (target-b).  
If (target-a)/sa > (target-b)/sb it means car A take more time to reach target
so car B will catch up car A and form a single group.

So we use the distance to target as key and speed as value, iterate through
all cars in order of their distances to the target.  
keep track of currently slowest one(which might block the car behind), if a
car can catch up current slowest one, it will not cause a new group.  
Otherwise, we count a new group and update the info of slowest

    
    
    class Solution {
        public int carFleet(int target, int[] position, int[] speed) {
            TreeMap<Integer, Integer> map = new TreeMap<>();
            int n = position.length;
            for(int i=0; i<n; ++i){
                map.put(target - position[i], speed[i]);
            }
            int count = 0;
            double r = -1.0;
    	/*for all car this value must > 0, so we can count for the car closeset to target*/
            for(Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> entry: map.entrySet()){
                int d = entry.getKey(); // distance
                int s = entry.getValue(); // speed
                double t = 1.0*d/s; // time to target
                if(t>r){ // this car is unable to catch up previous one, form a new group and update the value
                    ++count;
                    r = t;
                }
            }
            return count;
        }
    }
    

Time: O(nlogn)  
Space: O(n)  
Runtime: 40 ms


### Solution 3
Starting from the the car closest to the target, check if the car can catch up
the slowest car ahead, if yes, merge into it; otherwise, form a new fleet.

Method 1: Using TreeMap to sort the position.

    
    
        public int carFleet(int target, int[] position, int[] speed) {
            TreeMap<Integer, Integer> tm = new TreeMap<>(Collections.reverseOrder());
            for (int i = 0; i < position.length; ++i) { tm.put(position[i], speed[i]); } // sort by cars' position.
            int fleets = 0;
            double slowest = 0; // slowest fleet time to reach target.
            for (int pos : tm.keySet()) { // iterate starting from the fleet closest to the target.
                double time = (double)(target - pos) / tm.get(pos); // time need for the car to reach the target.
                if (time <= slowest) { continue; } // can catch up the slowest fleet ahead, merge into it.
                ++fleets; // can NOT catch up, form a new fleet.
                slowest = time; // update slowest fleet time.
            }
            return fleets;
        }
    

Method 2: Using Java 8 Stream to descendingly sort the indices according to
the corresponding position value.

    
    
        public int carFleet(int target, int[] position, int[] speed) {
            // sort the indices of postion[] by the order that from the closest to the farthest to the target.
            int[] sortedIndices = IntStream.range(0, position.length).boxed().sorted((a, b) -> position[b] - position[a]).mapToInt(k -> k).toArray();
            int fleets = 0;
            double slowest = 0; // slowest fleet time.
            for (int index : sortedIndices) { // iterate starting from the fleet closest to the target.
                double time = (double)(target - position[index]) / speed[index]; // time need for the car to reach the target.
                if (time <= slowest) { continue; } // can catch up the slowest fleet ahead, merge into it.
                ++fleets; // can NOT catch up, form a new fleet.
                slowest = time; // update slowest fleet time.
            }
            return fleets;
        }
    



