---
layout: post
title: 89. Gray Code
---
### Question
The gray code is a binary numeral system where two successive values differ in
only one bit.

Given a non-negative integer _n_ representing the total number of bits in the
code, print the sequence of gray code. A gray code sequence must begin with 0.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:**  2
    **Output:**  [0,1,3,2]
    **Explanation:**
    00 - 0
    01 - 1
    11 - 3
    10 - 2
    
    For a given   _n_ , a gray code sequence may not be uniquely defined.
    For example, [0,2,3,1] is also a valid gray code sequence.
    
    00 - 0
    10 - 2
    11 - 3
    01 - 1
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:**  0
    **Output:**  [0]
    **Explanation:** We define the gray code sequence to begin with 0.
                  A gray code sequence of _n_ has size = 2 n, which for _n_ = 0 the size is 2 0 = 1.
                 Therefore, for _n_ = 0 the gray code sequence is [0].
    

### Solution 1
My idea is to generate the sequence iteratively. For example, when n=3, we can
get the result based on n=2.  
00,01,11,10 -> (000,001,011,010 ) (110,111,101,100). The middle two numbers
only differ at their highest bit, while the rest numbers of part two are
exactly symmetric of part one. It is easy to see its correctness.  
Code is simple:

* * *
    
    
    public List<Integer> grayCode(int n) {
        List<Integer> rs=new ArrayList<Integer>();
        rs.add(0);
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            int size=rs.size();
            for(int k=size-1;k>=0;k--)
                rs.add(rs.get(k) | 1<<i);
        }
        return rs;
    }


### Solution 2
    
    
    public List<Integer> grayCode(int n) {
        List<Integer> result = new LinkedList<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 1<<n; i++) result.add(i ^ i>>1);
        return result;
    }
    

The idea is simple. G(i) = i^ (i/2).


### Solution 3
All you need is a bit of careful thought.

Btw, it's extremely useful to write down your thought/demo in comments before
you actually start to write the code, especially during interview.

Even if you do not solve the problem finally, the interviewer at least get to
know what you're thinking.

And if you don't get the problem right, he/she will have a chance to correct
you.

    
    
    class Solution:
        # @return a list of integers
        '''
        from up to down, then left to right
        
        0   1   11  110
                10  111
                    101
                    100
                    
        start:      [0]
        i = 0:      [0, 1]
        i = 1:      [0, 1, 3, 2]
        i = 2:      [0, 1, 3, 2, 6, 7, 5, 4]
        '''
        def grayCode(self, n):
            results = [0]
            for i in range(n):
                results += [x + pow(2, i) for x in reversed(results)]
            return results



