---
layout: post
title: 274. H-Index
---
### Question
Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a
researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.

According to the [definition of h-index on
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index): "A scientist has index _h_
if _h_ of his/her _N_ papers have **at least** _h_ citations each, and the
other _N âˆ’ h_ papers have **no more than** _h_ citations each."

 **Example:**

    
    
     **Input:** citations = [3,0,6,1,5]
    **Output:** 3 
    **Explanation:**[3,0,6,1,5] means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had 
                 received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively. 
                 Since the researcher has 3 papers with **at least** 3 citations each and the remaining 
                 two with **no more than** 3 citations each, her h-index is 3.

 **Note:  **If there are several possible values for _h_ , the maximum one is
taken as the h-index.

### Solution 1
This type of problems always throw me off, but it just takes some getting used
to. The idea behind it is some bucket sort mechanisms. First, you may ask why
bucket sort. Well, the h-index is defined as the number of papers with
reference greater than the number. So assume `n` is the total number of
papers, if we have `n+1` buckets, number from 0 to n, then for any paper with
reference corresponding to the index of the bucket, we increment the count for
that bucket. The only exception is that for any paper with larger number of
reference than `n`, we put in the `n`-th bucket.

Then we iterate from the back to the front of the buckets, whenever the total
count exceeds the index of the bucket, meaning that we have the index number
of papers that have reference greater than or equal to the index. Which will
be our h-index result. The reason to scan from the end of the array is that we
are looking for the greatest h-index. For example, given array `[3,0,6,5,1]`,
we have 6 buckets to contain how many papers have the corresponding index.
Hope to image and explanation help.

![Buckets][1]

    
    
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        int n = citations.length;
        int[] buckets = new int[n+1];
        for(int c : citations) {
            if(c >= n) {
                buckets[n]++;
            } else {
                buckets[c]++;
            }
        }
        int count = 0;
        for(int i = n; i >= 0; i--) {
            count += buckets[i];
            if(count >= i) {
                return i;
            }
        }
        return 0;
    }
    


### Solution 2
    
    
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        int len = citations.length;
        int[] count = new int[len + 1];
        
        for (int c: citations)
            if (c > len) 
                count[len]++;
            else 
                count[c]++;
        
        
        int total = 0;
        for (int i = len; i >= 0; i--) {
            total += count[i];
            if (total >= i)
                return i;
        }
        
        return 0;
    }


### Solution 3
The idea is to see that the result can only range from 0 to the length of the
array (because we can't have h-index greater than the total papers published).
So we create an array "arr" which acts like a HashMap (using pigeon hole
principle) and loop backwards from the highest element, then we find "tot"
which is the total number of papers that has more than i citations, and we
stop when tot>=i (total number of papers with more than i citations >= i). We
don't need to keep going because we are trying the biggest i possible, we we
stop and return the result.

    
    
    public class Solution {
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        int n = citations.length, tot=0;
        int[] arr = new int[n+1];
        for (int i=0; i<n; i++) {
            if (citations[i]>=n) arr[n]++;
            else arr[citations[i]]++;
        }
        for (int i=n; i>=0; i--) {
            tot += arr[i];
            if (tot>=i) return i;
        }
        return 0;
    }
    

}



