---
layout: post
title: 502. IPO
---
### Question
Suppose LeetCode will start its IPO soon. In order to sell a good price of its
shares to Venture Capital, LeetCode would like to work on some projects to
increase its capital before the IPO. Since it has limited resources, it can
only finish at most **k** distinct projects before the IPO. Help LeetCode
design the best way to maximize its total capital after finishing at most
**k** distinct projects.

You are given several projects. For each project **i** , it has a pure profit
**P i** and a minimum capital of **C i** is needed to start the corresponding
project. Initially, you have **W** capital. When you finish a project, you
will obtain its pure profit and the profit will be added to your total
capital.

To sum up, pick a list of at most **k** distinct projects from given projects
to maximize your final capital, and output your final maximized capital.

 **Example 1:**  

    
    
     **Input:** k=2, W=0, Profits=[1,2,3], Capital=[0,1,1].
    
    **Output:** 4
    
    **Explanation:** Since your initial capital is 0, you can only start the project indexed 0.
                 After finishing it you will obtain profit 1 and your capital becomes 1.
                 With capital 1, you can either start the project indexed 1 or the project indexed 2.
                 Since you can choose at most 2 projects, you need to finish the project indexed 2 to get the maximum capital.
                 Therefore, output the final maximized capital, which is 0 + 1 + 3 = 4.
    

**Note:**  

  1. You may assume all numbers in the input are non-negative integers.
  2. The length of Profits array and Capital array will not exceed 50,000.
  3. The answer is guaranteed to fit in a 32-bit signed integer.

### Solution 1
The idea is each time we find a project with `max` profit and within current
capital capability.  
Algorithm:

  1. Create (capital, profit) pairs and put them into PriorityQueue `pqCap`. This PriorityQueue sort by capital increasingly.
  2. Keep polling pairs from `pqCap` until the project out of current capital capability. Put them into  
PriorityQueue `pqPro` which sort by profit decreasingly.

  3. Poll one from `pqPro`, it's guaranteed to be the project with `max` profit and within current capital capability. Add the profit to capital `W`.
  4. Repeat step 2 and 3 till finish `k` steps or no suitable project (pqPro.isEmpty()).

Time Complexity: For worst case, each project will be inserted and polled from
both PriorityQueues once, so the overall runtime complexity should be
`O(NlgN)`, N is number of projects.

    
    
    public class Solution {
        public int findMaximizedCapital(int k, int W, int[] Profits, int[] Capital) {
            PriorityQueue<int[]> pqCap = new PriorityQueue<>((a, b) -> (a[0] - b[0]));
            PriorityQueue<int[]> pqPro = new PriorityQueue<>((a, b) -> (b[1] - a[1]));
            
            for (int i = 0; i < Profits.length; i++) {
                pqCap.add(new int[] {Capital[i], Profits[i]});
            }
            
            for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
                while (!pqCap.isEmpty() && pqCap.peek()[0] <= W) {
                    pqPro.add(pqCap.poll());
                }
                
                if (pqPro.isEmpty()) break;
                
                W += pqPro.poll()[1];
            }
            
            return W;
        }
    }
    


### Solution 2
Loop k times:  
Add all possible projects (Capital <= W) into the priority queue with the
priority = -Profit.  
Get the project with the smallest priority (biggest Profit).  
Add the Profit to W

    
    
    def findMaximizedCapital(self, k, W, Profits, Capital):
            heap = []
            projects = sorted(zip(Profits, Capital), key=lambda l: l[1])
            i = 0
            for _ in range(k):
                while i < len(projects) and projects[i][1] <= W:
                    heapq.heappush(heap, -projects[i][0])
                    i += 1
                if heap: W -= heapq.heappop(heap)
            return W
    

Edited after sha256pki's suggestion


### Solution 3
 **Key Observation:**

  1. The more capital `W` you have now, the more maximum capital you will eventually earn.
  2. Working on any doable project with positive `P[i] > 0` increases your capital `W`.
  3. Any project with `P[i] = 0` is useless and should be filtered away immediately (note that the problem only guarantees all inputs non-negative).

Therefore, always work on the most profitable project `P[i]` first as long as
it is doable until we reach maximum `k` projects or all doable projects are
done.

The algorithm will be straightforward:

  1. At each stage, split projects into two categories:
    * "doables": ones with `C[i] <= W` (store `P[i]` in `priority_queue<int> low`)
    * "undoables": ones with `C[i] > W` (store `(C[i], P[i])` in `multiset<pair<int,int>> high`)
  2. Work on most profitable project from `low` (`low.top()`) first, and update capital `W += low.top()`.
  3. Move those previous undoables from `high` to doables `low` whose `C[i] <= W`.
  4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 until we reach maximum `k` projects or no more doable projects.

    
    
        int findMaximizedCapital(int k, int W, vector<int>& P, vector<int>& C) {
          priority_queue<int> low;      // P[i]'s within current W
          multiset<pair<int,int>> high; // (C[i],P[i])'s' outside current W
          
          for (int i = 0; i < P.size(); ++i) // initialize low and high
            if(P[i] > 0) if (C[i] <= W) low.push(P[i]); else high.emplace(C[i], P[i]);
        
          while (k-- && low.size()) { 
            W += low.top(), low.pop(); // greedy to work on most profitable first
            for (auto i = high.begin(); high.size() && i->first <= W; i = high.erase(i)) low.push(i->second);
          }
          return W;
        }
    



