---
layout: post
title: 464. Can I Win
---
### Question
In the "100 game," two players take turns adding, to a running total, any
integer from 1..10. The player who first causes the running total to reach or
exceed 100 wins.

What if we change the game so that players cannot re-use integers?

For example, two players might take turns drawing from a common pool of
numbers of 1..15 without replacement until they reach a total >= 100.

Given an integer `maxChoosableInteger` and another integer `desiredTotal`,
determine if the first player to move can force a win, assuming both players
play optimally.

You can always assume that `maxChoosableInteger` will not be larger than 20
and `desiredTotal` will not be larger than 300.

 **Example**

    
    
     **Input:**
    maxChoosableInteger = 10
    desiredTotal = 11
    
    **Output:**
    false
    
    **Explanation:**
    No matter which integer the first player choose, the first player will lose.
    The first player can choose an integer from 1 up to 10.
    If the first player choose 1, the second player can only choose integers from 2 up to 10.
    The second player will win by choosing 10 and get a total = 11, which is  >= desiredTotal.
    Same with other integers chosen by the first player, the second player will always win.
    

### Solution 1
After solving several "Game Playing" questions in leetcode, I find them to be
pretty similar. Most of them can be solved using the **top-down DP** approach,
which "brute-forcely" simulates every possible state of the game.

The key part for the top-down dp strategy is that we need to **avoid
repeatedly solving sub-problems**. Instead, we should use some strategy to
"remember" the outcome of sub-problems. Then when we see them again, we
instantly know their result. By doing this, ~~we can always reduce time
complexity from **exponential** to **polynomial**~~.  
( **EDIT:** Thanks for @billbirdh for pointing out the mistake here. For this
problem, by applying the memo, we at most compute for every subproblem once,
and there are `O(2^n)` subproblems, so the complexity is `O(2^n)` after
memorization. (Without memo, time complexity should be like `O(n!)`)

For this question, the key part is: `what is the state of the game`?
Intuitively, to uniquely determine the result of any state, we need to know:

  1. The unchosen numbers
  2. The remaining desiredTotal to reach

A second thought reveals that **1)** and **2)** are actually related because
we can always get the **2)** by deducting the sum of chosen numbers from
original desiredTotal.

Then the problem becomes how to describe the state using **1)**.

In my solution, I use a **boolean array** to denote which numbers have been
chosen, and then a question comes to mind, if we want to use a Hashmap to
remember the outcome of sub-problems, can we just use `Map<boolean[],
Boolean>` ? **Obviously we cannot** , because the if we use boolean[] as a
key, the reference to boolean[] won't reveal the actual content in boolean[].

Since in the problem statement, it says `maxChoosableInteger` will not be
larger than `20`, which means the length of our **boolean[] array** will be
less than `20`. Then we can use an `Integer` to represent this boolean[]
array. How?

Say the boolean[] is `{false, false, true, true, false}`, then we can transfer
it to an Integer with binary representation as `00110`. Since Integer is a
perfect choice to be the key of HashMap, then we now can "memorize" the sub-
problems using `Map<Integer, Boolean>`.

The rest part of the solution is just simulating the game process using the
top-down dp.

    
    
    public class Solution {
        Map<Integer, Boolean> map;
        boolean[] used;
        public boolean canIWin(int maxChoosableInteger, int desiredTotal) {
            int sum = (1+maxChoosableInteger)*maxChoosableInteger/2;
            if(sum < desiredTotal) return false;
            if(desiredTotal <= 0) return true;
            
            map = new HashMap();
            used = new boolean[maxChoosableInteger+1];
            return helper(desiredTotal);
        }
        
        public boolean helper(int desiredTotal){
            if(desiredTotal <= 0) return false;
            int key = format(used);
            if(!map.containsKey(key)){
        // try every unchosen number as next step
                for(int i=1; i<used.length; i++){
                    if(!used[i]){
                        used[i] = true;
         // check whether this lead to a win (i.e. the other player lose)
                        if(!helper(desiredTotal-i)){
                            map.put(key, true);
                            used[i] = false;
                            return true;
                        }
                        used[i] = false;
                    }
                }
                map.put(key, false);
            }
            return map.get(key);
        }
       
    // transfer boolean[] to an Integer 
        public int format(boolean[] used){
            int num = 0;
            for(boolean b: used){
                num <<= 1;
                if(b) num |= 1;
            }
            return num;
        }
    }
    

**Updated:** Thanks for @ckcz123 for sharing the great idea. In Java, to
denote `boolean[]`, an easier way is to use `Arrays.toString(boolean[])`,
which will transfer a `boolean[]` to sth like `"[true, false, false, ....]"`,
which is also not limited to how `maxChoosableInteger` is set, so it can be
generalized to arbitrary large `maxChoosableInteger`.


### Solution 2
Easy to understand baseline solution (not fast though), memorization is used
to prune the search space.

    
    
        def canIWin(self, maxChoosableInteger, desiredTotal):
            """
            :type maxChoosableInteger: int
            :type desiredTotal: int
            :rtype: bool
            """
            if (1 + maxChoosableInteger) * maxChoosableInteger/2 < desiredTotal:
                return False
            self.memo = {}
            return self.helper(range(1, maxChoosableInteger + 1), desiredTotal)
    
            
        def helper(self, nums, desiredTotal):
            
            hash = str(nums)
            if hash in self.memo:
                return self.memo[hash]
            
            if nums[-1] >= desiredTotal:
                return True
                
            for i in range(len(nums)):
                if not self.helper(nums[:i] + nums[i+1:], desiredTotal - nums[i]):
                    self.memo[hash]= True
                    return True
            self.memo[hash] = False
            return False


### Solution 3
For short notation, let `M = maxChoosableInteger` and `T = desiredTotal`.

 **Key Observation:** the state of the game is completely determined by
currently available numbers to pick in the common pool.

 **State of Game:** initially, we have all `M` numbers `[1, M]` available in
the pool. Each number may or may not be picked at a state of the game later
on, so we have maximum `2^M` different states. Note that `M <= 20`, so `int`
range is enough to cover it. For memorization, we define `int k` as the key
for a game state, where

  * the `i`-th bit of `k`, i.e., `k&(1<<i)` represents the availability of number `i+1` (`1`: picked; `0`: not picked).

At state `k`, the current player could pick any unpicked number from the pool,
so state `k` can only go to one of the valid next states `k'`:

  * if `i`-th bit of `k` is `0`, set it to be `1`, i.e., next state `k' = k|(1<<i)`.

 **Recursion:** apparently

  * the current player can win at state `k` iff opponent can't win at some valid next state `k'`.

 **Memorization:** to speed up the recursion, we can use a `vector<int> m` of
size `2^M` to memorize calculated results `m[k]` for state key `k`:

  * `0` : not calculated yet;
  * `1` : current player can win;
  * `-1`: current player can't win.

 **Initial State Check:**  
There are several checks to be done at initial state `k = 0` for early
termination so we won't waste our time for DFS process:

  1. if `T < 2`, obviously, the first player wins by simply picking `1`.
  2. if the sum of entire pool `S = M*(M+1)/2` is less than `T`, of course, nobody can reach `T`.
  3. if the sum `S == T`, the order to pick numbers from the pool is irrelevant. Whoever picks the last will reach `T`. So the first player can win iff `M` is odd.

    
    
        bool canIWin(int M, int T) {
          int S = M*(M+1)/2; // sum of entire pool
          return T<2? true : S<T? false : S==T? M%2 : dfs(M,T,0);
        }
        
        bool dfs(int M, int T, int k) {
          if (T<=0 || m[k]) return T>0 && m[k]>0; // memorization or total reached by opponent
          for (int i = 0; i < M; ++i)
            if (!(k&1<<i) && !dfs(M, T-i-1, k|1<<i)) return m[k] = 1; // current player wins
          return !(m[k] = -1); // current player can't win
        }
        
        int m[1<<20] = {}; // m[key]: memorized result when pool state = key
    



