---
layout: post
title: 518. Coin Change 2
---
### Question
You are given coins of different denominations and a total amount of money.
Write a function to compute the number of combinations that make up that
amount. You may assume that you have infinite number of each kind of coin.



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** amount = 5, coins = [1, 2, 5]
    **Output:** 4
    **Explanation:** there are four ways to make up the amount:
    5=5
    5=2+2+1
    5=2+1+1+1
    5=1+1+1+1+1
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** amount = 3, coins = [2]
    **Output:** 0
    **Explanation:** the amount of 3 cannot be made up just with coins of 2.
    

**Example 3:**

    
    
    **Input:** amount = 10, coins = [10] 
    **Output:** 1
    



 **Note:**

You can assume that

  * 0 <= amount <= 5000
  * 1 <= coin <= 5000
  * the number of coins is less than 500
  * the answer is guaranteed to fit into signed 32-bit integer

### Solution 1
This is a classic knapsack problem. Honestly, I'm not good at knapsack
problem, it's really tough for me.

`dp[i][j]` : the number of combinations to make up amount `j` by using the
first `i` types of coins  
`State transition`:

  1. not using the `i`th coin, only using the first `i-1` coins to make up amount `j`, then we have `dp[i-1][j]` ways.
  2. using the `i`th coin, since we can use unlimited same coin, we need to know how many ways to make up amount `j - coins[i-1]` by using first `i` coins(including `i`th), which is `dp[i][j-coins[i-1]]`

`Initialization`: `dp[i][0] = 1`

Once you figure out all these, it's easy to write out the code:

    
    
        public int change(int amount, int[] coins) {
            int[][] dp = new int[coins.length+1][amount+1];
            dp[0][0] = 1;
            
            for (int i = 1; i <= coins.length; i++) {
                dp[i][0] = 1;
                for (int j = 1; j <= amount; j++) {
                    dp[i][j] = dp[i-1][j] + (j >= coins[i-1] ? dp[i][j-coins[i-1]] : 0);
                }
            }
            return dp[coins.length][amount];
        }
    

Now we can see that `dp[i][j]` only rely on `dp[i-1][j]` and
`dp[i][j-coins[i]]`, then we can optimize the space by only using one-
dimension array.

    
    
        public int change(int amount, int[] coins) {
            int[] dp = new int[amount + 1];
            dp[0] = 1;
            for (int coin : coins) {
                for (int i = coin; i <= amount; i++) {
                    dp[i] += dp[i-coin];
                }
            }
            return dp[amount];
        }
    


### Solution 2
I created a [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jaNZ83Q3QGc) video that
explains how the Coin Change problem works. I go through the dynamic
programming algorithm visually then I show how to program it in java. Hope it
helps!


### Solution 3
State:  
`dp[i] as the number of combinations that make up total amount i for 0 <= i <=
amount`  
Final State:  
`dp[amount]`  
State Transformation:  
`dp[i] = dp[i - coins[0]] + dp[i - coins[1]] + ... + dp[i - coins[coins.length
- 1]] if i - coins[0] >= 0`  
Please note that the outer loop should be about `coins`, while the inner loop
should be about `amount`. Or else, there may be duplicates in the result, e.g.
for input: amount = 5, coins = [1, 2, 5], it counts [2, 2, 1] and [2, 1, 2] as
two different combinations, so it will return 9 rather than 5. All in all,
`the order of coins doesn't matter`in this case, so we set it as `the outer
loop`.

    
    
        public int change(int amount, int[] coins) {
            int[] dp = new int[amount + 1];
            dp[0] = 1;        
            for (int j = 0; j < coins.length; j++) {
                for (int i = 1; i <= amount; i++) {
                    if (i - coins[j] >= 0) {
                        dp[i] += dp[i - coins[j]];
                    }
                }
            }
            return dp[amount];
        }
    

_I would appreciate your **Vote Up**_ ;)



