---
layout: post
title: 292. Nim Game
---
### Question
You are playing the following Nim Game with your friend: There is a heap of
stones on the table, each time one of you take turns to remove 1 to 3 stones.
The one who removes the last stone will be the winner. You will take the first
turn to remove the stones.

Both of you are very clever and have optimal strategies for the game. Write a
function to determine whether you can win the game given the number of stones
in the heap.

 **Example:**

    
    
     **Input:** 4
    **Output:** false 
    **Explanation:** If there are 4 stones in the heap, then you will never win the game;
                 No matter 1, 2, or 3 stones you remove, the last stone will always be 
                 removed by your friend.

### Solution 1
> Theorem: The first one who got the number that is multiple of 4 (i.e. n % 4
== 0) will lost, otherwise he/she will win.

Proof:

  1. the base case: when `n = 4`, as suggested by the hint from the problem, no matter which number that that first player, the second player would always be able to pick the remaining number.

  2. For `1* 4 < n < 2 * 4, (n = 5, 6, 7)`, the first player can reduce the initial number into 4 accordingly, which will leave the death number 4 to the second player. i.e. The numbers 5, 6, 7 are winning numbers for any player who got it first.

  3. Now to the beginning of the next cycle, `n = 8`, no matter which number that the first player picks, it would always leave the winning numbers (5, 6, 7) to the second player. Therefore, 8 % 4 == 0, again is a death number.

  4. Following the second case, for numbers between (2*4 = 8) and (3*4=12), which are `9, 10, 11`, are winning numbers for the first player again, because the first player can always reduce the number into the death number 8.

Following the above theorem and proof, the solution could not be simpler:

    
    
    public boolean canWinNim(int n) {    
        return n % 4 != 0 ;
    }


### Solution 2
suppose there are x stones left for first player (A), he can take 1,2,3 stones
away, so second player B will have three cases to deal with (x -1), (x-2),
(x-3). after he pick the stones, there will be 9 cases left for A.

    
    
    B (x-1) -> A: (x-2), (x-3), (x-4)
    B (x-2) -> A: (x-3), (x-4), (x-5)
    B (x-3) -> A: (x-4), (x-5), (x-6)
    

Now, if A can guarantee he win at either of three groups, then he can force B
to into that one of the three states and A can end up in that particular group
after B's move.

    
    
    f(x) = (f(x-2)&&f(x-3)&&f(x-4)) || (f(x-3)&&f(x-4)&&f(x-5)) || (f(x-4)&&f(x-5)&&f(x-6))
    

if we examine the equation a little closer, we can find f(x - 4) is a critical
point, if f(x-4) is false, then f(x) will be always false.

we can also find out the initial conditions, f(1), f(2), f(3) will be true (A
always win), and f(4) will be false. so  
based on previous equation and initial conditions f(5) = f(6) = f(7) = true,
f(8) = false;  
obviously, f(1), f(2), f(3) can make all f(4n + 1), f(4n + 2), f(4n + 3) to be
true, only f(4n) will be false then.  
so here we go our one line solution:

return (n % 4 != 0);


### Solution 3
If the two least significant bits of `n` are zeros, you will never win.  
Why? Because **whoever is dealt a hand of 4 will never win**. Since your
opponent is also very smart, she can reduce any multiple of `4` to `4` for you
and you'll never win. Instead of using modulo or division, you can verify if a
number is a multiple of `4` by checking its two least significant bits.

    
    
    public boolean canWinNim(int n) {
       return (n & 0b11) != 0;
    }



