---
layout: post
title: 54. Spiral Matrix
---
### Question
Given a matrix of _m_ x _n_ elements ( _m_ rows, _n_ columns), return all
elements of the matrix in spiral order.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:**
    [
     [ 1, 2, 3 ],
     [ 4, 5, 6 ],
     [ 7, 8, 9 ]
    ]
    **Output:** [1,2,3,6,9,8,7,4,5]
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:**
    [
      [1, 2, 3, 4],
      [5, 6, 7, 8],
      [9,10,11,12]
    ]
    **Output:** [1,2,3,4,8,12,11,10,9,5,6,7]
    

### Solution 1
This is a very simple and easy to understand solution. I traverse right and
increment rowBegin, then traverse down and decrement colEnd, then I traverse
left and decrement rowEnd, and finally I traverse up and increment colBegin.

The only tricky part is that when I traverse left or up I have to check
whether the row or col still exists to prevent duplicates. If anyone can do
the same thing without that check, please let me know!

Any comments greatly appreciated.

    
    
    public class Solution {
        public List<Integer> spiralOrder(int[][] matrix) {
            
            List<Integer> res = new ArrayList<Integer>();
            
            if (matrix.length == 0) {
                return res;
            }
            
            int rowBegin = 0;
            int rowEnd = matrix.length-1;
            int colBegin = 0;
            int colEnd = matrix[0].length - 1;
            
            while (rowBegin <= rowEnd && colBegin <= colEnd) {
                // Traverse Right
                for (int j = colBegin; j <= colEnd; j ++) {
                    res.add(matrix[rowBegin][j]);
                }
                rowBegin++;
                
                // Traverse Down
                for (int j = rowBegin; j <= rowEnd; j ++) {
                    res.add(matrix[j][colEnd]);
                }
                colEnd--;
                
                if (rowBegin <= rowEnd) {
                    // Traverse Left
                    for (int j = colEnd; j >= colBegin; j --) {
                        res.add(matrix[rowEnd][j]);
                    }
                }
                rowEnd--;
                
                if (colBegin <= colEnd) {
                    // Traver Up
                    for (int j = rowEnd; j >= rowBegin; j --) {
                        res.add(matrix[j][colBegin]);
                    }
                }
                colBegin ++;
            }
            
            return res;
        }
    }


### Solution 2
Take the first row plus the spiral order of the rotated remaining matrix.
Inefficient for large matrices, but here I got it accepted in 40 ms, one of
the fastest Python submissions.

Python:

    
    
    def spiralOrder(self, matrix):
        return matrix and list(matrix.pop(0)) + self.spiralOrder(zip(*matrix)[::-1])
    

Python 3:

    
    
    def spiralOrder(self, matrix):
        return matrix and [*matrix.pop(0)] + self.spiralOrder([*zip(*matrix)][::-1])
    

Ruby:

    
    
    def spiral_order(matrix)
      (row = matrix.shift) ? row + spiral_order(matrix.transpose.reverse) : []
    end
    

or

    
    
    def spiral_order(matrix)
      matrix[0] ? matrix.shift + spiral_order(matrix.transpose.reverse) : []
    end
    

### Visualization

Here's how the matrix changes by always extracting the first row and rotating
the remaining matrix counter-clockwise:

    
    
        |1 2 3|      |6 9|      |8 7|      |4|  =>  |5|  =>  ||
        |4 5 6|  =>  |5 8|  =>  |5 4|  =>  |5|
        |7 8 9|      |4 7|
    

Now look at the first rows we extracted:

    
    
        |1 2 3|      |6 9|      |8 7|      |4|      |5|
    

Those concatenated are the desired result.

### Another visualization

    
    
      spiral_order([[1, 2, 3],
                    [4, 5, 6],
                    [7, 8, 9]])
    
    = [1, 2, 3] + spiral_order([[6, 9],
                                [5, 8],
                                [4, 7]])
    
    = [1, 2, 3] + [6, 9] + spiral_order([[8, 7],
                                         [5, 4]])
    
    = [1, 2, 3] + [6, 9] + [8, 7] + spiral_order([[4],
                                                  [5]])
    
    = [1, 2, 3] + [6, 9] + [8, 7] + [4] + spiral_order([[5]])
    
    = [1, 2, 3] + [6, 9] + [8, 7] + [4] + [5] + spiral_order([])
    
    = [1, 2, 3] + [6, 9] + [8, 7] + [4] + [5] + []
    
    = [1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 8, 7, 4, 5]
    


### Solution 3
When traversing the matrix in the spiral order, at any time we follow one out
of the following four directions: RIGHT DOWN LEFT UP. Suppose we are working
on a 5 x 3 matrix as such:

0 1 2 3 4 5  
6 7 8 9 10  
11 12 13 14 15

Imagine a cursor starts off at (0, -1), i.e. the position at '0', then we can
achieve the spiral order by doing the following:

  1. Go right 5 times
  2. Go down 2 times
  3. Go left 4 times
  4. Go up 1 times.
  5. Go right 3 times
  6. Go down 0 times -> quit

Notice that the directions we choose always follow the order
'right->down->left->up', and for horizontal movements, the number of shifts
follows:{5, 4, 3}, and vertical movements follows {2, 1, 0}.

Thus, we can make use of a direction matrix that records the offset for all
directions, then an array of two elements that stores the number of shifts for
horizontal and vertical movements, respectively. This way, we really just need
one for loop instead of four.

Another good thing about this implementation is that: If later we decided to
do spiral traversal on a different direction (e.g. Counterclockwise), then we
only need to change the Direction matrix; the main loop does not need to be
touched.

    
    
    vector<int> spiralOrder(vector<vector<int>>& matrix) {
        vector<vector<int> > dirs{{0, 1}, {1, 0}, {0, -1}, {-1, 0}};
        vector<int> res;
        int nr = matrix.size();     if (nr == 0) return res;
        int nc = matrix[0].size();  if (nc == 0) return res;
        
        vector<int> nSteps{nc, nr-1};
        
        int iDir = 0;   // index of direction.
        int ir = 0, ic = -1;    // initial position
        while (nSteps[iDir%2]) {
            for (int i = 0; i < nSteps[iDir%2]; ++i) {
                ir += dirs[iDir][0]; ic += dirs[iDir][1];
                res.push_back(matrix[ir][ic]);
            }
            nSteps[iDir%2]--;
            iDir = (iDir + 1) % 4;
        }
        return res;
    }



