---
layout: post
title: 909. Stone Game
---
### Question
Alex and Lee play a game with piles of stones.  There are an even number of
piles **arranged in a row** , and each pile has a positive integer number of
stones `piles[i]`.

The objective of the game is to end with the most stones.  The total number of
stones is odd, so there are no ties.

Alex and Lee take turns, with Alex starting first.  Each turn, a player takes
the entire pile of stones from either the beginning or the end of the row.
This continues until there are no more piles left, at which point the person
with the most stones wins.

Assuming Alex and Lee play optimally, return `True` if and only if Alex wins
the game.



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** [5,3,4,5]
    **Output:** true
    **Explanation:**
    Alex starts first, and can only take the first 5 or the last 5.
    Say he takes the first 5, so that the row becomes [3, 4, 5].
    If Lee takes 3, then the board is [4, 5], and Alex takes 5 to win with 10 points.
    If Lee takes the last 5, then the board is [3, 4], and Alex takes 4 to win with 9 points.
    This demonstrated that taking the first 5 was a winning move for Alex, so we return true.
    



 **Note:**

  1. `2 <= piles.length <= 500`
  2. `piles.length` is even.
  3. `1 <= piles[i] <= 500`
  4. `sum(piles)` is odd.

### Solution 1
## Approach 1: Just return true

Alex is first to pick pile.  
`piles.length` is even, and this lead to an interesting fact:  
Alex can always pick odd piles or always pick even piles!

For example,  
If Alex wants to pick even indexed piles `piles[0], piles[2], .....,
piles[n-2]`,  
he picks first `piles[0]`, then Lee can pick either `piles[1]` or `piles[n -
1]`.  
Every turn, Alex can always pick even indexed piles and Lee can only pick odd
indexed piles.

In the description, we know that `sum(piles)` is odd.  
If `sum(piles[even]) > sum(piles[odd])`, Alex just picks all evens and wins.  
If `sum(piles[even]) < sum(piles[odd])`, Alex just picks all odds and wins.

So, Alex always defeats Lee in this game.

 **C++/Java**

    
    
         return true;
    

**Python:**

    
    
         return True
    

  

## Approach 2: 2D DP

It's tricky when we have even number of piles of stones. You may not have this
condition in an interview.

**Follow-up:**

What if piles.length can be odd?  
What if we want to know exactly the diffenerce of score?  
Then we need to solve it with DP.

`dp[i][j]` means the biggest number of stones you can get more than opponent
picking piles in `piles[i] ~ piles[j]`.  
You can first pick `piles[i]` or `piles[j]`.

  1. If you pick `piles[i]`, your result will be `piles[i] - dp[i + 1][j]`
  2. If you pick `piles[j]`, your result will be `piles[j] - dp[i][j - 1]`

So we get:  
`dp[i][j] = max(piles[i] - dp[i + 1][j], piles[j] - dp[i][j - 1])`  
We start from smaller subarray and then we use that to calculate bigger
subarray.

Note that take evens or take odds, it's just an easy strategy to win when the
number of stones is even.  
**It's not the best solution!**  
I didn't find a tricky solution when the number of stones is odd (maybe there
is).

**C++:**

    
    
        bool stoneGame(vector<int>& p) {
            int n = p. size();
            vector<vector<int>> dp(n, vector<int>(n, 0));
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) dp[i][i] = p[i];
            for (int d = 1; d < n; d++)
                for (int i = 0; i < n - d; i++)
                    dp[i][i + d] = max(p[i] - dp[i + 1][i + d], p[i + d] - dp[i][i + d - 1]);
            return dp[0][n - 1] > 0;
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
        public boolean stoneGame(int[] p) {
            int n = p. length;
            int[][] dp  = new int[n][n];
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) dp[i][i] = p[i];
            for (int d = 1; d < n; d++)
                for (int i = 0; i < n - d; i++)
                    dp[i][i + d] = Math.max(p[i] - dp[i + 1][i + d], p[i + d] - dp[i][i + d - 1]);
            return dp[0][n - 1] > 0;
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
        def stoneGame(self, p):
            n = len(p)
            dp = [[ 0] * n for i in range(n)]
            for i in range(n): dp[i][i] = p[i]
            for d in range(1, n):
                for i in range(n - d):
                    dp[i][i + d] = max(p[i] - dp[i + 1][i + d], p[i + d] - dp[i][i + d - 1])
            return dp[0][-1] > 0
    

  

## Approach 3: 1D DP

Follow up: Use only O(N) space?

Simplify to 1D DP.

**C++:**

    
    
        bool stoneGame(vector<int>& p) {
            vector<int> dp = p;
             for (int d = 1; d < p.size(); d++)
                for (int i = 0; i < p.size() - d; i++)
                    dp[i] = max(p[i] - dp[i + 1], p[i + d] - dp[i]);
            return dp[0] > 0;
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
        public boolean stoneGame(int[] p) {
            int[] dp = Arrays.copyOf(p, p. length);;
            for (int d = 1; d < p.length; d++)
                for (int i = 0; i < p.length - d; i++)
                    dp[i] = Math.max(p[i] - dp[i + 1], p[i + d] - dp[i]);
            return dp[0] > 0;
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
        def stoneGame(self,  p):
            n = len(p)
            dp = p[:]
            for d in range(1, n):
                for i in range(n - d):
                    dp[i] = max(p[i] - dp[i + 1], p[i + d] - dp[i])
            return dp[0] > 0
    


### Solution 2
Alex can always take all odd piles or always take all even piles  
Since sum of all piles is odd then sum of all odd piles won't equals sum of
all even piles, Alex could just take the bigger ones.

    
    
        bool stoneGame(vector<int>& piles) {
            return true;
        }
    


### Solution 3
The problem was made a "trick problem," because Alex always wins, but if you
want to learn the **general idea behind these problems** here is the
explanation for other cases.

    
    
     class Solution {
        int [][][] memo;
        public boolean stoneGame(int[] piles) {
            memo = new int[piles.length + 1][piles.length + 1][2];
            for(int [][] arr : memo)
                for(int [] subArr : arr)
                    Arrays.fill(subArr, -1);
            
            return (helper(0, piles.length - 1, piles, 1) >= 0);
        }
        
        public int helper(int l, int r, int [] piles, int ID){
            if(r < l)
                return 0;
            if(memo[l][r][ID] != -1)
                return memo[l][r][ID];
            
            int next = Math.abs(ID - 1);
            if(ID == 1)
                memo[l][r][ID] = Math.max(piles[l] + helper(l + 1, r, piles, next), piles[r] + helper(l, r - 1, piles, next));
            else
                memo[l][r][ID] = Math.min(-piles[l] + helper(l + 1, r, piles, next), -piles[r] + helper(l, r - 1, piles, next));
            
            return memo[l][r][ID];
        }
    }
    

This is a **Minimax** problem. Each player plays optimally to win, but you
can't greedily choose the optimal strategy so you have to try _all_
strategies, this is DP now.

What does it mean for Alex to win? Alex will win if `score(Alex) >=
score(Lee)`, but this also means `score(Alex) - score(Lee) >= 0`, so here you
have a **common parameter** which is a `score` variable. The `score` parameter
really means `score = score(Alex) - score(Lee)`.

Now, if each player is suppoed to play optimally, how do you decide this with
one variable?

Well since Alex is playing optimally, he wants to **maximize** the `score`
variable because remember, Alex only wins if `score = score(Alex) - score(Lee)
>= 0` Alex should _add_ to the score because he wants to maximize it.  
Since Lee is also playing optimally, he wants to **minimize** the `score`
variable, since if the `score` variable becomes negative, Lee has more
individual score than Alex. But since we have only one variable, Lee should
_damage_ the score (or in other words, _subtract_ from the score).

Now, let's think of the brute force solution. You are at the current state,
say this is Alex's turn. Alex can choose either `left` or `right`, but he
can't greedily pick so you try _both_ of them, this is `O(2^n)` for runtime.

But realize the `state` you are in. You can easily memoize the this, the
varying parameters are `l, r, ID`, where `ID` is the player ID (`1 for Alex, 0
for Lee`), hence you can make a DP/Cache table and return answer if you have
discovered the state.

Finally, in your main function you call this `helper` function and check if
you were able to get a `score >= 0`.



