---
layout: post
title: 546. Remove Boxes
---
### Question
Given several boxes with different colors represented by different positive
numbers.  
You may experience several rounds to remove boxes until there is no box left.
Each time you can choose some continuous boxes with the same color (composed
of k boxes, k >= 1), remove them and get `k*k` points.  
Find the maximum points you can get.

 **Example 1:**  
Input:

    
    
    [1, 3, 2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 3, 1]
    

Output:

    
    
    23
    

Explanation:

    
    
    [1, 3, 2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 3, 1] 
    ----> [1, 3, 3, 4, 3, 1] (3*3=9 points) 
    ----> [1, 3, 3, 3, 1] (1*1=1 points) 
    ----> [1, 1] (3*3=9 points) 
    ----> [] (2*2=4 points)
    

**Note:** The number of boxes `n` would not exceed 100.

### Solution 1
Since the input is an array, let's begin with the usual approach by breaking
it down with the original problem applied to each of the subarrays.

Let the input array be `boxes` with length `n`. Define `T(i, j)` as the
maximum points one can get by removing boxes of the subarray `boxes[i, j]`
(both inclusive). The original problem is identified as `T(0, n - 1)` and the
termination condition is as follows:

  1. `T(i, i - 1) = 0`: no boxes so no points.
  2. `T(i, i) = 1`: only one box left so the maximum point is `1`.

Next let's try to work out the recurrence relation for `T(i, j)`. Take the
first box `boxes[i]`(i.e., the box at index `i`) as an example. What are the
possible ways of removing it? (Note: we can also look at the last box and the
analyses turn out to be the same.)

If it happens to have a color that you dislike, you'll probably say "I don't
like this box so let's get rid of it now". In this case, you will first get
`1` point for removing this poor box. But still you want maximum points for
the remaining boxes, which by definition is `T(i + 1, j)`. In total your
points will be `1 + T(i + 1, j)`.

But later after reading the rules more carefully, you realize that you might
get more points if this box (`boxes[i]`) can be removed together with other
boxes of the same color. For example, if there are two such boxes, you get `4`
points by removing them simultaneously, instead of `2` by removing them one by
one. So you decide to let it stick around a little bit longer until another
box of the same color (whose index is `m`) becomes its neighbor. Note up to
this moment all boxes from index `i + 1` to index `m - 1` would have been
removed. So if we again aim for maximum points, the points gathered so far
will be `T(i + 1, m - 1)`. What about the remaining boxes?

At this moment, the boxes we left behind consist of two parts: the one at
index `i` (`boxes[i]`) and those of the subarray `boxes[m, j]`, with the
former bordering the latter from the left. Apparently there is no way applying
the definition of the subproblem to the subarray `boxes[m, j]`, since we have
some extra piece of information that is not included in the definition. **In
this case, I shall call that the definition of the subproblem is not self-
contained and its solution relies on information external to the subproblem
itself**.

Another example of problem that does not have self-contained subproblems is
[leetcode 312. Burst Balloons](https://leetcode.com/problems/burst-
balloons/#/description), where the maximum coins of subarray `nums[i, j]`
depend on the two numbers adjacent to `nums[i]` on the left and to `nums[j]`
on the right. So you may find some similarities between these two problems.

Problems without self-contained subproblems usually don't have well-defined
recurrence relations, which renders it impossible to be solved recursively.
The cure to this issue can sound simple and straightforward: **modify the
definition of the problem to absorb the external information so that the new
one is self-contained**.

So let's see how we can redefine `T(i, j)` to make it self-contained. First
let's identify the external information. On the one hand, from the point of
view of the subarray `boxes[m, j]`, it knows nothing about the number (denoted
by `k`) of boxes of the same color as `boxes[m]`to its left. On the other
hand, given this number `k`, the maximum points can be obtained from removing
all these boxes is fixed. Therefore the external information to `T(i, j)` is
this `k`. Next let's absorb this extra piece of information into the
definition of `T(i, j)` and redefine it as `T(i, j, k)` which denotes the
maximum points possible by removing the boxes of subarray `boxes[i, j]` with
`k` boxes attached to its left of the same color as `boxes[i]`. Lastly let's
reexamine some of the statements above:

  1. Our original problem now becomes `T(0, n - 1, 0)`, since there is no boxes attached to the left of the input array at the beginning.

  2. The termination conditions now will be:  
 **a**. `T(i, i - 1, k) = 0`: no boxes so no points, and this is true for any
`k` (you can interpret it as nowhere to attach the boxes).  
 **b**. `T(i, i, k) = (k + 1) * (k + 1)`: only one box left in the subarray
but we've already got `k` boxes of the same color attached to its left, so the
total number of boxes of the same color is `(k + 1)` and the maximum point is
`(k + 1) * (k + 1)`.

  3. The recurrence relation is as follows and the maximum points will be the larger of the two cases:  
 **a**. If we remove `boxes[i]` first, we get `(k + 1) * (k + 1) + T(i + 1, j,
0)` points, where for the first term, instead of `1` we again get `(k + 1) *
(k + 1)` points for removing `boxes[i]` due to the attached boxes to its left;
and for the second term there will be no attached boxes so we have the `0` in
this term.  
 **b**. If we decide to attach `boxes[i]` to some other box of the same color,
say `boxes[m]`, then from our analyses above, the total points will be `T(i +
1, m - 1, 0) + T(m, j, k + 1)`, where for the first term, since there is no
attached boxes for subarray `boxes[i + 1, m - 1]`, we have `k = 0` for this
part; while for the second term, the total number of attached boxes for
subarray `boxes[m, j]` will increase by `1` because apart from the original
`k` boxes, we have to account for `boxes[i]`now, so we have `k + 1` for this
term. But we are not done yet. What if there are multiple boxes of the same
color as `boxes[i]` within subarray `boxes[i + 1, j]`? We have to try each of
them and choose the one that yields the maximum points. Therefore the final
answer for this case will be: `max(T(i + 1, m - 1, 0) + T(m, j, k + 1))` where
`i < m <= j && boxes[i] == boxes[m]`.

Before we get to the actual code, it's not hard to discover that there is
overlapping among the subproblems `T(i, j, k)`, therefore it's qualified as a
DP problem and its intermediate results should be cached for future lookup.
Here each subproblem is characterized by three integers `(i, j, k)`, all of
which are bounded, i.e, `0 <= i, j, k < n`, so a three-dimensional array (`n x
n x n`) will be good enough for the cache.

Finally here are the two solutions, one for top-down DP and the other for
bottom-up DP. From the bottom-up solution, the time complexity will be
`O(n^4)` and the space complexity will be `O(n^3)`.

 **`Top-down DP:`**

    
    
    public  int removeBoxes(int[] boxes) {
        int n = boxes.length;
        int[][][] dp = new int[n][n][n];
        return removeBoxesSub(boxes, 0, n - 1, 0, dp);
    }
        
    private int removeBoxesSub(int[] boxes, int i, int j, int k, int[][][] dp) {
        if (i > j) return 0;
        if (dp[i][j][k] > 0) return dp[i][j][k];
        
        for (; i + 1 <= j && boxes[i + 1] == boxes[i]; i++, k++); // optimization: all boxes of the same color counted continuously from the first box should be grouped together
        int res = (k + 1) * (k + 1) + removeBoxesSub(boxes, i + 1, j, 0, dp);
        
        for (int m = i + 1; m <= j; m++) {
            if (boxes[i] == boxes[m]) {
                res = Math.max(res, removeBoxesSub(boxes, i + 1, m - 1, 0, dp) + removeBoxesSub(boxes, m, j, k + 1, dp));
            }
        }
            
        dp[i][j][k] = res;
        return res;
    }
    

**`Bottom-up DP:`**

    
    
     public int removeBoxes(int[] boxes) {
        int n = boxes.length;
        int[][][] dp = new int[n][n][n];
        	
        for (int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
        	for (int k = 0; k <= j; k++) {
        	    dp[j][j][k] = (k + 1) * (k + 1);
        	}
        }
        	
        for (int l = 1; l < n; l++) {
        	for (int j = l; j < n; j++) {
        	    int i = j - l;
        	        
        	    for (int k = 0; k <= i; k++) {
        	        int res = (k + 1) * (k + 1) + dp[i + 1][j][0];
        	            
        	        for (int m = i + 1; m <= j; m++) {
        	            if (boxes[m] == boxes[i]) {
        	                res = Math.max(res, dp[i + 1][m - 1][0] + dp[m][j][k + 1]);
        	            }
        	        }
        	            
        	        dp[i][j][k] = res;
        	    }
        	}
        }
        
        return (n == 0 ? 0 : dp[0][n - 1][0]);
    }
    

**`Side notes`** : In case you are curious, for the problem " **leetcode 312.
Burst Balloons** ", the external information to subarray `nums[i, j]` is the
two numbers (denoted as `left` and `right`) adjacent to `nums[i]` and
`nums[j]`, respectively. If we absorb this extra piece of information into the
definition of `T(i, j)`, we have `T(i, j, left, right)` which represents the
maximum coins obtained by bursting balloons of subarray `nums[i, j]` whose two
adjacent numbers are `left` and `right`. The original problem will be `T(0, n
- 1, 1, 1)` and the termination condition is `T(i, i, left, right) = left *
right * nums[i]`. The recurrence relations will be: `T(i, j, left, right) =
max(left * nums[k] * right + T(i, k - 1, left, nums[k]) + T(k + 1, j, nums[k],
right))` where `i <= k <= j` (here we interpret it as that the balloon at
index `k` is the last to be burst. Since all balloons can be the last one so
we try each case and choose one that yields the maximum coins). For more
details, refer to [dietpepsi 's
post](https://discuss.leetcode.com/topic/30746/share-some-analysis-and-
explanations).


### Solution 2
Getting memory limit errors for the last input, so sad. I read some of the top
submissions and found out the reason: I was using STL vector instead of a C
array....

Thanks to one of the top submission, which used the same idea as me, I have
cleaned my code.

======================= Explanation ===========================  
 **First Attempt**  
The initial thought is straightforward, try every possible removal and
recursively search the rest. No doubt it will be a TLE answer. Obviously there
are a lot of recomputations involved here. Memoization is the key then. But
how to design the memory is tricky. I tried to use a string of 0s and 1s to
indicate whether the box is removed or not, but still getting TLE.

 **One step further**  
I think the problem of the approach above is that there are a lot of
_unnecessary_ computations (not recomputations). For example, if there is a
formation of `ABCDAA`, we know the optimal way is `B->C->D->AAA`. On the other
hand, if the formation is `BCDAA`, meaning that we couldn't find an `A` before
`D`, we will simply remove `AA`, which will be the optimal solution for
removing them. Note this is true only if `AA` is at the end of the array. With
naive memoization approach, the program will search a lot of unnecessary
paths, such as `C->B->D->AA`, `D->B->C->AA`.

Therefore, I designed the memoization matrix to be `memo[l][r][k]`, the
largest number we can get using `l`th to `r`th (inclusive) boxes with k same
colored boxes as `r`th box appended at the end. Example, `memo[l][r][3]`
represents the solution for this setting: `[b_l, ..., b_r, A,A,A]` with
`b_r==A`.

The transition function is to find the maximum among all `b_i==b_r` for
`i=l,...,r-1`:

`memo[l][r][k] = max(memo[l][r][k], memo[l][i][k+1] + memo[i+1][r-1][0])`

Basically, if there is one `i` such that `b_i==b_r`, we partition the array
into two: `[b_l, ..., b_i, b_r, A, ..., A]`, and `[b_{i+1}, ..., b_{r-1}]`.
The solution for first one will be `memo[l][i][k+1]`, and the second will be
`memo[i+1][r-1][0]`. Otherwise, we just remove the last k+1 boxes (including
`b_r`) and search the best solution for `l`th to `r-1`th boxes. (One
optimization here: make `r` as left as possible, this improved the running
time from **250ms** to **35ms** )

The final solution is stored in `memo[0][n-1][0]` for sure.

I didn't think about this question for a long time in the contest because the
time is up. There will be a lot of room for time and space optimization as
well. Thus, if you find any flaws or any improvements, please correct me.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int removeBoxes(vector<int>& boxes) {
            int n=boxes.size();
            int memo[100][100][100] = {0};
            return dfs(boxes,memo,0,n-1,0);
        }
        
        int dfs(vector<int>& boxes,int memo[100][100][100], int l,int r,int k){
            if (l>r) return 0;
            if (memo[l][r][k]!=0) return memo[l][r][k];
    
            while (r>l && boxes[r]==boxes[r-1]) {r--;k++;}
            memo[l][r][k] = dfs(boxes,memo,l,r-1,0) + (k+1)*(k+1);
            for (int i=l; i<r; i++){
                if (boxes[i]==boxes[r]){
                    memo[l][r][k] = max(memo[l][r][k], dfs(boxes,memo,l,i,k+1) + dfs(boxes,memo,i+1,r-1,0));
                }
            }
            return memo[l][r][k];
        }
    };
    


### Solution 3
When facing this problem, I am keeping thinking how to simulate the case when
`boxes[i] == boxes[j]` when `i` and `j` are not consecutive. It turns out that
the dp matrix needs one more dimension to store such state. So we are going to
define the state as

    
    
    dp[i][j][k] represents the max points from box[i] to box[j] with k boxes whose values equal to box[i]
    

The transformation function is as below

    
    
    dp[i][j][k] = max(dp[i+1][m-1][1] + dp[m][j][k+1]) when box[i] = box[m]
    

So the Java code with memorization is as below. Kindly ask me any questions.

    
    
      public int removeBoxes(int[] boxes) {
            if (boxes == null || boxes.length == 0) {
                return 0;
            }
    
            int size = boxes.length;
            int[][][] dp = new int[size][size][size];
    
            return get(dp, boxes, 0, size-1, 1);
        }
    
        private int get(int[][][] dp, int[] boxes, int i, int j, int k) {
            if (i > j) {
                return 0;
            } else if (i == j) {
                return k * k;
            } else if (dp[i][j][k] != 0) {
                return dp[i][j][k];
            } else {
                int temp = get(dp, boxes, i + 1, j, 1) + k * k;
    
                for (int m = i + 1; m <= j; m++) {
                    if (boxes[i] == boxes[m]) {
                        temp = Math.max(temp, get(dp, boxes, i + 1, m - 1, 1) + get(dp, boxes, m, j, k + 1));
                    }
                }
    
                dp[i][j][k] = temp;
                return temp;
            }
    
    
        }
    



