---
layout: post
title: 72. Edit Distance
---
### Question
Given two words _word1_ and _word2_ , find the minimum number of operations
required to convert _word1_ to _word2_.

You have the following 3 operations permitted on a word:

  1. Insert a character
  2. Delete a character
  3. Replace a character

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** word1 = "horse", word2 = "ros"
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation:** 
    horse - > rorse (replace 'h' with 'r')
    rorse -> rose (remove 'r')
    rose -> ros (remove 'e')
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** word1 = "intention", word2 = "execution"
    **Output:** 5
    **Explanation:** 
    intention - > inention (remove 't')
    inention -> enention (replace 'i' with 'e')
    enention -> exention (replace 'n' with 'x')
    exention -> exection (replace 'n' with 'c')
    exection -> execution (insert 'u')
    

### Solution 1
To apply DP, we define the state `dp[i][j]` to be the minimum number of
operations to convert `word1[0..i)` to `word2[0..j)`.

For the base case, that is, to convert a string to an empty string, the
mininum number of operations (deletions) is just the length of the string. So
we have `dp[i][0] = i` and `dp[0][j] = j`.

For the general case to convert `word1[0..i)` to `word2[0..j)`, we break this
problem down into sub-problems. Suppose we have already known how to convert
`word1[0..i - 1)` to `word2[0..j - 1)` (`dp[i - 1][j - 1]`), if `word1[i - 1]
== word2[j - 1]`, then no more operation is needed and `dp[i][j] = dp[i - 1][j
- 1]`.

If `word1[i - 1] != word2[j - 1]`, we need to consider three cases.

  1.  **Replace** `word1[i - 1]` by `word2[j - 1]` (`dp[i][j] = dp[i - 1][j - 1] + 1`);
  2. If `word1[0..i - 1) = word2[0..j)` then **delete** `word1[i - 1]` (`dp[i][j] = dp[i - 1][j] + 1`);
  3. If `word1[0..i) + word2[j - 1] = word2[0..j)` then **insert** `word2[j - 1]` to `word1[0..i)` (`dp[i][j] = dp[i][j - 1] + 1`).

So when `word1[i - 1] != word2[j - 1]`, `dp[i][j]` will just be the minimum of
the above three cases.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int minDistance(string word1, string word2) {
            int m = word1.size(), n = word2.size();
            vector<vector<int>> dp(m + 1, vector<int>(n + 1, 0));
            for (int i = 1; i <= m; i++) {
                dp[i][0] = i;
            }
            for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                dp[0][j] = j;
            }
            for (int i = 1; i <= m; i++) {
                for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                    if (word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]) {
                        dp[i][j] = dp[i - 1][j - 1];
                    } else {
                        dp[i][j] = min(dp[i - 1][j - 1], min(dp[i][j - 1], dp[i - 1][j])) + 1;
                    }
                }
            }
            return dp[m][n];
        }
    };
    

Note that each time when we update `dp[i][j]`, we only need `dp[i - 1][j -
1]`, `dp[i][j - 1]` and `dp[i - 1][j]`. We may optimize the space of the code
to use only two vectors.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int minDistance(string word1, string word2) {
            int m = word1.size(), n = word2.size();
            vector<int> pre(n + 1, 0), cur(n + 1, 0);
            for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                pre[j] = j;
            }
            for (int i = 1; i <= m; i++) {
                cur[0] = i;
                for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                    if (word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]) {
                        cur[j] = pre[j - 1];
                    } else {
                        cur[j] = min(pre[j - 1], min(cur[j - 1], pre[j])) + 1;
                    }
                }
                fill(pre.begin(), pre.end(), 0);
                swap(pre, cur);
            }
            return pre[n];
        }
    };
    

Or even just one vector.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int minDistance(string word1, string word2) {
            int m = word1.size(), n = word2.size(), pre;
            vector<int> cur(n + 1, 0);
            for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                cur[j] = j;
            }
            for (int i = 1; i <= m; i++) {
                pre = cur[0];
                cur[0] = i;
                for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                    int temp = cur[j];
                    if (word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]) {
                        cur[j] = pre;
                    } else {
                        cur[j] = min(pre, min(cur[j - 1], cur[j])) + 1;
                    }
                    pre = temp;
                }
            }
            return cur[n];
        }
    };
    


### Solution 2
Let following be the function definition :-

f(i, j) := minimum cost (or steps) required to convert first i characters of
word1 to first j characters of word2

Case 1: word1[i] == word2[j], i.e. the ith the jth character matches.

> f(i, j) = f(i - 1, j - 1)

Case 2: word1[i] != word2[j], then we must either insert, delete or replace,
whichever is cheaper

> f(i, j) = 1 + min { f(i, j - 1), f(i - 1, j), f(i - 1, j - 1) }

  1. f(i, j - 1) represents insert operation
  2. f(i - 1, j) represents delete operation
  3. f(i - 1, j - 1) represents replace operation

Here, we consider any operation from word1 to word2. It means, when we say
insert operation, we insert a new character after word1 that matches the jth
character of word2. So, now have to match i characters of word1 to j - 1
characters of word2. Same goes for other 2 operations as well.

Note that the problem is symmetric. The insert operation in one direction
(i.e. from word1 to word2) is same as delete operation in other. So, we could
choose any direction.

Above equations become the recursive definitions for DP.

Base Case:

> f(0, k) = f(k, 0) = k

Below is the direct bottom-up translation of this recurrent relation. It is
only important to take care of 0-based index with actual code :-

    
    
    public class Solution {
        public int minDistance(String word1, String word2) {
            int m = word1.length();
            int n = word2.length();
            
            int[][] cost = new int[m + 1][n + 1];
            for(int i = 0; i <= m; i++)
                cost[i][0] = i;
            for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++)
                cost[0][i] = i;
            
            for(int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
                for(int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
                    if(word1.charAt(i) == word2.charAt(j))
                        cost[i + 1][j + 1] = cost[i][j];
                    else {
                        int a = cost[i][j];
                        int b = cost[i][j + 1];
                        int c = cost[i + 1][j];
                        cost[i + 1][j + 1] = a < b ? (a < c ? a : c) : (b < c ? b : c);
                        cost[i + 1][j + 1]++;
                    }
                }
            }
            return cost[m][n];
        }
    }
    

Time complexity : If n is the length of word1, m of word2, because of the two
indented loops, it is O(nm)


### Solution 3
For those having difficulty cracking dynamic programming solutions, I find it
easiest to solve by first starting with a naive, but working recursive
implementation. It's essential to do so, because dynamic programming is
basically recursion with caching. With this workflow, deciphering dynamic
programming problems becomes just a little more manageable for us normal
people. :)

 **Thought process:**  
Given two strings, we're tasked with finding the minimum number of
transformations we need to make to arrive with equivalent strings. From the
get-go, there doesn't seem to be any way around trying all possibilities, and
in this, possibilities refers to inserting, deleting, or replacing a
character. Recursion is usually a good choice for trying all possilbilities.

Whenever we write recursive functions, we'll need some way to terminate, or
else we'll end up overflowing the stack via infinite recursion. With strings,
the natural state to keep track of is the index. We'll need two indexes, one
for word1 and one for word2. Now we just need to handle our base cases, and
recursive cases.  
What happens when we're done with either word? Some thought will tell you that
the minimum number of transformations is simply to insert the rest of the
other word. This is our base case. What about when we're not done with either
string? We'll either match the currently indexed characters in both strings,
or mismatch. In the first case, we don't incur any penalty, and we can
continue to compare the rest of the strings by recursing on the rest of both
strings. In the case of a mismatch, we either insert, delete, or replace. To
recap:

  1. base case: word1 = "" or word2 = "" => return length of other string
  2. recursive case: word1[0] == word2[0] => recurse on word1[1:] and word2[1:]
  3. recursive case: word1[0] != word2[0] => recurse by inserting, deleting, or replacing

And in Python:

    
    
    class Solution:
        def minDistance(self, word1, word2):
            """Naive recursive solution"""
            if not word1 and not word2:
                return 0
            if not word1:
                return len(word2)
            if not word2:
                return len(word1)
            if word1[0] == word2[0]:
                return self.minDistance(word1[1:], word2[1:])
            insert = 1 + self.minDistance(word1, word2[1:])
            delete = 1 + self.minDistance(word1[1:], word2)
            replace = 1 + self.minDistance(word1[1:], word2[1:])
            return min(insert, replace, delete)
    

With a solution in hand, we're ecstatic and we go to submit our code. All is
well until we see the dreaded red text... **TIME LIMIT EXCEEDED**. What did we
do wrong? Let's look at a simple example, and for sake of brevity I'll
annotate the minDistance function as `md`.

word1 = "horse"  
word2 = "hello"

The tree of recursive calls, 3 levels deep, looks like the following. I've
highlighted recursive calls with multiple invocations. So now we see that
we're repeating work. I'm not going to try and analyze the runtime of this
solution, but it's exponential.

    
    
    md("horse", "hello")
    	md("orse", "ello")
    		md("orse", "llo")
    			md("orse", "lo")
    			md("rse", "llo") <- 
    			md("rse", "lo")
    		md("rse", "ello")
    			md("rse", "llo") <-
    			md("se", "ello")
    			md("se", "llo") <<-
    		md("rse", "llo")
    			md("rse", "llo") <-
    			md("se", "llo") <<-
    			md("se", "lo")
    

The way we fix this is by **caching**. We save intermediate computations in a
dictionary and if we recur on the same subproblem, instead of doing the same
work again, we return the saved value. Here is the memoized solution, where we
build from bigger subproblems to smaller subproblems (top-down).

    
    
     class Solution:
        def minDistance(self, word1, word2, i, j, memo):
            """Memoized solution"""
            if i == len(word1) and j == len(word2):
                return 0
            if i == len(word1):
                return len(word2) - j
            if j == len(word2):
                return len(word1) - i
    
            if (i, j) not in memo:
                if word1[i] == word2[j]:
                    ans = self.minDistance2(word1, word2, i + 1, j + 1, memo)
                else: 
                    insert = 1 + self.minDistance2(word1, word2, i, j + 1, memo)
                    delete = 1 + self.minDistance2(word1, word2, i + 1, j, memo)
                    replace = 1 + self.minDistance2(word1, word2, i + 1, j + 1, memo)
                    ans = min(insert, delete, replace)
                memo[(i, j)] = ans
            return memo[(i, j)]
    

Of course, an interative implementation is usually better than its recursive
counterpart because we don't risk blowing up our stack in case the number of
recursive calls is very deep. We can also use a 2D array to do essentially the
same thing as the dictionary of cached values. When we do this, we build up
solutions from smaller subproblems to bigger subproblems (bottom-up). In this
case, since we are no longer "recurring" in the traditional sense, we
initialize our 2D table with base constraints. The first row and column of the
table has known values since if one string is empty, we simply add the length
of the non-empty string since that is the minimum number of edits necessary to
arrive at equivalent strings. For both the memoized and dynamic programming
solutions, the runtime is `O(mn)` and the space complexity is `O(mn)` where m
and n are the lengths of word1 and word2, respectively.

    
    
    class Solution:
        def minDistance(self, word1, word2):
            """Dynamic programming solution"""
            m = len(word1)
            n = len(word2)
            table = [[0] * (n + 1) for _ in range(m + 1)]
    
            for i in range(m + 1):
                table[i][0] = i
            for j in range(n + 1):
                table[0][j] = j
    
            for i in range(1, m + 1):
                for j in range(1, n + 1):
                    if word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]:
                        table[i][j] = table[i - 1][j - 1]
                    else:
                        table[i][j] = 1 + min(table[i - 1][j], table[i][j - 1], table[i - 1][j - 1])
            return table[-1][-1]
    



