---
layout: post
title: 885. Exam Room
---
### Question
In an exam room, there are `N` seats in a single row, numbered `0, 1, 2, ...,
N-1`.

When a student enters the room, they must sit in the seat that maximizes the
distance to the closest person.  If there are multiple such seats, they sit in
the seat with the lowest number.  (Also, if no one is in the room, then the
student sits at seat number 0.)

Return a class `ExamRoom(int N)` that exposes two functions: `ExamRoom.seat()`
returning an `int` representing what seat the student sat in, and
`ExamRoom.leave(int p)` representing that the student in seat number `p` now
leaves the room.  It is guaranteed that any calls to `ExamRoom.leave(p)` have
a student sitting in seat `p`.



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** ["ExamRoom","seat","seat","seat","seat","leave","seat"], [[10],[],[],[],[],[4],[]]
    **Output:** [null,0,9,4,2,null,5]
    **Explanation** :
    ExamRoom(10) -> null
    seat() -> 0, no one is in the room, then the student sits at seat number 0.
    seat() -> 9, the student sits at the last seat number 9.
    seat() -> 4, the student sits at the last seat number 4.
    seat() -> 2, the student sits at the last seat number 2.
    leave(4) -> null
    seat() -> 5, the student sits at the last seat number 5.
    

​​​​​​​

 **Note:**

  1. `1 <= N <= 10^9`
  2. `ExamRoom.seat()` and `ExamRoom.leave()` will be called at most `10^4` times across all test cases.
  3. Calls to `ExamRoom.leave(p)` are guaranteed to have a student currently sitting in seat number `p`.

### Solution 1
The hardest part of the problem is to build the right data structure. More
explanations here: [https://github.com/awangdev/LintCode/blob/master/Java/Exam
Room.java](https://github.com/awangdev/LintCode/blob/master/Java/Exam%20Room.java)

A few concepts to discover:

  * Need to measure the distance between seated students: O(n) is trivial, but not as fast. Use `PriorityQueue to store the potential candidate as interval`, and also calculate the candidate's mid-distance to both side.
  * seat(): pq.poll() to find interval of largest distance. Split and add new intervals back to queue.
  * leave(x): one seat will be in 2 intervals: remove both from pq, and merge to a new interval.
  * Trick: there is no interval when adding for first student, so we need to create boundary/fake seats `[-1, N]`, which simplifies the edge case a lot. (I spent hours on edge case, and finally saw a smart abstraction using boundary seats).
  * Once these concepts are clear, all the rest is busy coding : )

    
    
    // PriorityQueue
    class ExamRoom {
        PriorityQueue<Interval> pq;
        int N;
    
        class Interval {
            int x, y, dist;
            public Interval(int x, int y) {
                this.x = x;
                this.y = y;
                if (x == -1) {
                    this.dist = y;
                } else if (y == N) {
                    this.dist = N - 1 - x;
                } else {
                    this.dist = Math.abs(x - y) / 2;    
                }
            }
        }
    
        public ExamRoom(int N) {
            this.pq = new PriorityQueue<>((a, b) -> a.dist != b.dist? b.dist - a.dist : a.x - b.x);
            this.N = N;
            pq.add(new Interval(-1, N));
        }
    
        // O(logn): poll top candidate, split into two new intervals
        public int seat() {
            int seat = 0;
            Interval interval = pq.poll();
            if (interval.x == -1) seat = 0;
            else if (interval.y == N) seat = N - 1;
            else seat = (interval.x + interval.y) / 2; 
            
            pq.offer(new Interval(interval.x, seat));
            pq.offer(new Interval(seat, interval.y));
                
            return seat;
        }
        
        // O(n)Find head and tail based on p. Delete and merge two ends
        public void leave(int p) {
            Interval head = null, tail = null;
            List<Interval> intervals = new ArrayList<>(pq);
            for (Interval interval : intervals) {
                if (interval.x == p) tail = interval;
                if (interval.y == p) head = interval;
                if (head != null && tail != null) break;
            }
            // Delete
            pq.remove(head);
            pq.remove(tail);
            // Merge
            pq.offer(new Interval(head.x, tail.y));
        }
    }
    


### Solution 2
Very straight forward idea.  
Use a list `L` to record the index of seats where people sit.

`seat()`:  
1\. find the biggest distance at the start, at the end and in the middle.  
2\. insert index of seat  
3\. return index

`leave(p)`: pop out `p`

 **Time Complexity** :  
O(N) for `seat()` and `leave()`

 **C++:**

    
    
         int N;
        vector<int> L;
        ExamRoom(int n) {
            N = n;
        }
    
        int seat() {
            if (L.size() == 0) {
                L.push_back(0);
                return 0;
            }
            int d = max(L[0], N - 1 - L[L.size() - 1]);
            for (int i = 0; i < L.size() - 1; ++i) d = max(d, (L[i + 1] - L[i]) / 2);
            if (L[0] == d) {
                L.insert(L.begin(), 0);
                return 0;
            }
            for (int i = 0; i < L.size() - 1; ++i)
                if ((L[i + 1] - L[i]) / 2 == d) {
                    L.insert(L.begin() + i + 1, (L[i + 1] + L[i]) / 2);
                    return L[i + 1];
                }
            L.push_back(N - 1);
            return N - 1;
        }
    
        void leave(int p) {
            for (int i = 0; i < L.size(); ++i) if (L[i] == p) L.erase(L.begin() + i);
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
         int N;
        ArrayList<Integer> L = new ArrayList<>();
        public ExamRoom(int n) {
            N = n;
        }
    
        public int seat() {
            if (L.size() == 0) {
                L.add(0);
                return 0;
            }
            int d = Math.max(L.get(0), N - 1 - L.get(L.size() - 1));
            for (int i = 0; i < L.size() - 1; ++i) d = Math.max(d, (L.get(i + 1) - L.get(i)) / 2);
            if (L.get(0) == d) {
                L.add(0, 0);
                return 0;
            }
            for (int i = 0; i < L.size() - 1; ++i)
                if ((L.get(i + 1) - L.get(i)) / 2 == d) {
                    L.add(i + 1, (L.get(i + 1) + L.get(i)) / 2);
                    return L.get(i + 1);
                }
            L.add(N - 1);
            return N - 1;
        }
    
        public void leave(int p) {
            for (int i = 0; i < L.size(); ++i) if (L.get(i) == p) L.remove(i);
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
         def __init__(self, N):
            self.N, self.L = N, []
    
        def seat(self):
            N, L = self.N, self.L
            if not L: res = 0
            else:
                d, res = L[0], 0
                for a, b in zip(L, L[1:]):
                    if (b - a) / 2 > d:
                        d, res = (b - a) / 2, (b + a) / 2
                if N - 1 - L[-1] > d: res = N - 1
            bisect.insort(L, res)
            return res
    
        def leave(self, p):
            self.L.remove(p)
    


### Solution 3
We will name a range of unoccupied seats from `i` to `j` an _Available
segment_ with first index `i` and last index `j`. For each available segment
we can say how far the "best" seat in this segment is from the closest
occupied seat. The number of empty seats in between is **priority** of the
segment. The higher the priority the better seat you can get from a segment.
For the edge cases when segment starts with index `0` or ends with index `N -
1` priority equals to `segment_size - 1`. For segments in the middle of the
row priority can be calculated as `(segment_size - 1) // 2` or `(last - first)
// 2`. Please note that two segments of different size may have equal
priority. For example, segments with 3 seats and with 4 seats have the same
priority "1".

We will use priority queue `self.heap` to store all currently available
segments. Python implements `heapq` as **min heap** , so we will use negated
priority to keep the best availabe segment on top of the queue. If two
segments have equal priority, then the one with lower `first` index is better.
Taken this into account, we will store availabale segment in `self.heap` as
4-items list: `[-segment_priority, first_index_of_segment,
last_index_of_segment, is_valid]`. The first two items `-segment_priority` and
`first_index_of_segment` guarantee correct priority queue order.

A helper function `put_segment()` takes `first` and `last` index of the
available segment, calculates its priority and pushes a list object into
`self.heap`. In addition, it puts this list object into two dicts:
`self.avail_first[first] = segment` and `self.avail_last[last] = segment`.
These dicts will be used later in `leave()`.

We start with only one available segment [0, N - 1]. When `seat()` is called,
we pop best available segment from `self.heap`. If segment's `is_valid` flag
is `False` then we pop another one, until we get a valid available segment.
There are two edge cases when popped segment starts at 0 or ends at N - 1. For
these cases we return the edge seat number (0 or N - 1 respectively) and push
new segment into `self.heap`. Otherwize, when the popped segment is in the
middle of the row, we return its middle seat and create up to two new
available segments of smaller size, and push them into `self.heap`.

Now, `leave()` implementation is quite interesting. When seat `p` is vacated,
we need to check if there are adjacent available segment(s) in the heap, and
merge them together with `p`. We use dicts `self.avail_first` and
`self.avail_last` to check for adjacent available segments. If these
segment(s) are found, they need to be excluded from `self.heap`. Deleting
items in `self.heap` will break heap invariant and requires subsequent
`heapify()` call that executes in O(n log n) time. Instead we can just mark
segments as invalid by setting `is_valid` flag: `segment[3] = False`. Invalid
segments will be skipped upon `heappop()` in `seat()`.

    
    
    from heapq import heappop, heappush
    
    
    class ExamRoom(object):
    
        def __init__(self, N):
            """
            :type N: int
            """
            self.N = N
            self.heap = []
            self.avail_first = {}
            self.avail_last = {}
            self.put_segment(0, self.N - 1)
    
        def put_segment(self, first, last):
    
            if first == 0 or last == self.N - 1:
                priority = last - first
            else:
                priority = (last - first) // 2
    
            segment = [-priority, first, last, True]
    
            self.avail_first[first] = segment
            self.avail_last[last] = segment
    
            heappush(self.heap, segment)
    
        def seat(self):
            """
            :rtype: int
            """
            while True:
                _, first, last, is_valid = heappop(self.heap)
    
                if is_valid:
                    del self.avail_first[first]
                    del self.avail_last[last]
                    break
    
            if first == 0:
                ret = 0
                if first != last:
                    self.put_segment(first + 1, last)
    
            elif last == self.N - 1:
                ret = last
                if first != last:
                    self.put_segment(first, last - 1)
    
            else:
                ret = first + (last - first) // 2
    
                if ret > first:
                    self.put_segment(first, ret - 1)
    
                if ret < last:
                    self.put_segment(ret + 1, last)
    
            return ret
    
        def leave(self, p):
            """
            :type p: int
            :rtype: void
            """
            first = p
            last = p
    
            left = p - 1
            right = p + 1
    
            if left >= 0 and left in self.avail_last:
                segment_left = self.avail_last.pop(left)
                segment_left[3] = False
                first = segment_left[1]
    
            if right < self.N and right in self.avail_first:
                segment_right = self.avail_first.pop(right)
                segment_right[3] = False
                last = segment_right[2]
    
            self.put_segment(first, last)
    



