---
layout: post
title: 593. Valid Square
---
### Question
Given the coordinates of four points in 2D space, return whether the four
points could construct a square.

The coordinate (x,y) of a point is represented by an integer array with two
integers.

 **Example:**

    
    
     **Input:** p1 = [0,0], p2 = [1,1], p3 = [1,0], p4 = [0,1]
    **Output:** True
    



Note:

  1. All the input integers are in the range [-10000, 10000].
  2. A valid square has four equal sides with positive length and four equal angles (90-degree angles).
  3. Input points have no order.

### Solution 1
If we calculate all distances between 4 points, 4 smaller distances should be
equal (sides), and 2 larger distances should be equal too (diagonals). As an
optimization, we can compare squares of the distances, so we do not have to
deal with the square root and precision loss.

Therefore, our set will only contain 2 unique distances in case of square
(beware of the zero distance though).

    
    
    int d(vector<int>& p1, vector<int>& p2) {
        return (p1[0] - p2[0]) * (p1[0] - p2[0]) + (p1[1] - p2[1]) * (p1[1] - p2[1]);
    }
    bool validSquare(vector<int>& p1, vector<int>& p2, vector<int>& p3, vector<int>& p4) {
        unordered_set<int> s({ d(p1, p2), d(p1, p3), d(p1, p4), d(p2, p3), d(p2, p4), d(p3, p4) });
        return !s.count(0) && s.size() == 2;
    }
    


### Solution 2
Just find the square of lenghts, and validate that

  1. There are only two equal longest lenghts.

  2. The non longest lengths are all equal.

public boolean validSquare(int[] p1, int[] p2, int[] p3, int[] p4) {  
long[] lengths = {length(p1, p2), length(p2, p3), length(p3, p4),  
length(p4, p1), length(p1, p3),length(p2, p4)}; // all 6 sides

    
         long max = 0, nonMax = 0;
     for(long len : lengths) {
         max = Math.max(max, len);
     }
     int count = 0;
     for(int i = 0; i < lengths.length; i++) {
         if(lengths[i] == max) count++;
         else nonMax = lengths[i]; // non diagonal side.
     }
     if(count != 2) return false; // diagonals lenghts have to be same.
    
     for(long len : lengths) {
         if(len != max && len != nonMax) return false; // sides have to be same length
     }
     return true;
    

}  
private long length(int[] p1, int[] p2) {  
return (long)Math.pow(p1[0]-p2[0],2) + (long)Math.pow(p1[1]-p2[1], 2);  
}


### Solution 3
    
    
    public boolean validSquare(int[] p1, int[] p2, int[] p3, int[] p4) {
        HashSet<Integer> hs = new HashSet<>(Arrays.asList(dis(p1, p2), dis(p1, p3), dis(p1, p4), dis(p2, p3), dis(p2, p4), dis(p3, p4)));        
    	 return !hs.contains(0) && hs.size()==2; //One each for side & diagonal
        }
        int dis(int[] a, int[] b){
    	 return (a[0]-b[0])*(a[0]-b[0]) + (a[1]-b[1])*(a[1]-b[1]);
        }
    



