---
layout: post
title: 733. Flood Fill
---
### Question
An `image` is represented by a 2-D array of integers, each integer
representing the pixel value of the image (from 0 to 65535).

Given a coordinate `(sr, sc)` representing the starting pixel (row and column)
of the flood fill, and a pixel value `newColor`, "flood fill" the image.

To perform a "flood fill", consider the starting pixel, plus any pixels
connected 4-directionally to the starting pixel of the same color as the
starting pixel, plus any pixels connected 4-directionally to those pixels
(also with the same color as the starting pixel), and so on. Replace the color
of all of the aforementioned pixels with the newColor.

At the end, return the modified image.

 **Example 1:**  

    
    
     **Input:** 
    image = [[1,1,1],[1,1,0],[1,0,1]]
    sr = 1, sc = 1, newColor = 2
    **Output:** [[2,2,2],[2,2,0],[2,0,1]]
    **Explanation:** 
    From the center of the image (with position (sr, sc) = (1, 1)), all pixels connected 
    by a path of the same color as the starting pixel are colored with the new color.
    Note the bottom corner is not colored 2, because it is not 4-directionally connected
    to the starting pixel.
    

**Note:**

* The length of `image` and `image[0]` will be in the range `[1, 50]`.
* The given starting pixel will satisfy `0 <= sr < image.length` and `0 <= sc < image[0].length`.
* The value of each color in `image[i][j]` and `newColor` will be an integer in `[0, 65535]`.

### Solution 1
Time complexity: O(m*n), space complexity: O(1). m is number of rows, n is
number of columns.

    
    
    class Solution {
        public int[][] floodFill(int[][] image, int sr, int sc, int newColor) {
            if (image[sr][sc] == newColor) return image;
            fill(image, sr, sc, image[sr][sc], newColor);
            return image;
        }
        
        private void fill(int[][] image, int sr, int sc, int color, int newColor) {
            if (sr < 0 || sr >= image.length || sc < 0 || sc >= image[0].length || image[sr][sc] != color) return;
            image[sr][sc] = newColor;
            fill(image, sr + 1, sc, color, newColor);
            fill(image, sr - 1, sc, color, newColor);
            fill(image, sr, sc + 1, color, newColor);
            fill(image, sr, sc - 1, color, newColor);
        }
    }
    


### Solution 2
The idea is simple. Simply perform a DFS on the source cell. Continue the DFS
if:

  1. Next cell is within bounds.
  2. Next cell is the same color as source cell.

There is a tricky case where the new color is the same as the original color
and if the DFS is done on it, there will be an infinite loop. If new color is
same as original color, there is nothing to be done and we can simply return
the `image`.

 _\- Yangshun_

    
    
    class Solution(object):
        def floodFill(self,  image, sr, sc, newColor):
            rows, cols, orig_color = len(image), len(image[0]), image[sr][sc]
            def traverse(row, col):
                if (not (0 <= row < rows and 0 <= col < cols)) or image[row][col] != orig_color:
                    return
                image[row][col] = newColor
                [traverse(row + x, col + y) for (x, y) in ((0, 1), (1, 0), (0, -1), (-1, 0))]
            if orig_color != newColor:
                traverse(sr, sc)
            return image
    


### Solution 3
**Java**

    
    
    class Solution {
         public int[][] floodFill(int[][] image, int sr, int sc, int newColor) {
            if (image[sr][sc] != newColor)
                dfs(image, sr, sc, image[sr][sc], newColor);
            return image;
        }
    
        private void dfs(int[][] image, int i, int j, int c0, int c1) {
            if (i < 0 || j < 0 || i >= image.length || j >= image[0].length || image[i][j] != c0) return;
            image[i][j] = c1;
            dfs(image, i, j - 1, c0, c1);
            dfs(image, i, j + 1, c0, c1);
            dfs(image, i - 1, j, c0, c1);
            dfs(image, i + 1, j, c0, c1);
        }
    }
    

**C++**

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
         vector<vector<int>> floodFill(vector<vector<int>>& image, int sr, int sc, int newColor) {
            if (image[sr][sc] != newColor)
                dfs(image, sr, sc, image[sr][sc], newColor);
            return image;
        }
    
    private:
        void dfs(vector<vector<int>>& image, int i, int j, int c0, int c1) {
            if (i < 0 || j < 0 || i >= image.size() || j >= image[0].size() || image[i][j] != c0) return;
            image[i][j] = c1;
            dfs(image, i, j - 1, c0, c1);
            dfs(image, i, j + 1, c0, c1);
            dfs(image, i - 1, j, c0, c1);
            dfs(image, i + 1, j, c0, c1);
        }
    };
    



