---
layout: post
title: 45. Jump Game II
---
### Question
Given an array of non-negative integers, you are initially positioned at the
first index of the array.

Each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that
position.

Your goal is to reach the last index in the minimum number of jumps.

 **Example:**

    
    
     **Input:** [2,3,1,1,4]
    **Output:** 2
    **Explanation:** The minimum number of jumps to reach the last index is 2.
        Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.

 **Note:**

You can assume that you can always reach the last index.

### Solution 1
**Explanation**

The main idea is based on greedy. Let's say the range of the current jump is
[curBegin, curEnd], curFarthest is the farthest point that all points in
[curBegin, curEnd] can reach. Once the current point reaches curEnd, then
trigger another jump, and set the new curEnd with curFarthest, then keep the
above steps, as the following:

    
    
    public int jump(int[] A) {
    	int jumps = 0, curEnd = 0, curFarthest = 0;
    	for (int i = 0; i < A.length - 1; i++) {
    		curFarthest = Math.max(curFarthest, i + A[i]);
    		if (i == curEnd) {
    			jumps++;
    			curEnd = curFarthest;
    		}
    	}
    	return jumps;
    }


### Solution 2
I try to change this problem to a BFS problem, where nodes in level i are all
the nodes that can be reached in i-1th jump. for example. 2 3 1 1 4 , is  
2||  
3 1||  
1 4 ||

clearly, the minimum jump of 4 is 2 since 4 is in level 3. my ac code.

    
    
     int jump(int A[], int n) {
    	 if(n<2)return 0;
    	 int level=0,currentMax=0,i=0,nextMax=0;
    
    	 while(currentMax-i+1>0){		//nodes count of current level>0
    		 level++;
    		 for(;i<=currentMax;i++){	//traverse current level , and update the max reach of next level
    			nextMax=max(nextMax,A[i]+i);
    			if(nextMax>=n-1)return level;   // if last element is in level+1,  then the min jump=level 
    		 }
    		 currentMax=nextMax;
    	 }
    	 return 0;
     }


### Solution 3
    
    
    public int jump(int[] A) {
        int sc = 0;
        int e = 0;
        int max = 0;
        for(int i=0; i<A.length-1; i++) {
            max = Math.max(max, i+A[i]);
            if( i == e ) {
                sc++;
                e = max;
            } 
        }
        return sc;
    }



