---
layout: post
title: 679. 24 Game
---
### Question
You have 4 cards each containing a number from 1 to 9. You need to judge
whether they could operated through `*`, `/`, `+`, `-`, `(`, `)` to get the
value of 24.

 **Example 1:**  

    
    
     **Input:** [4, 1, 8, 7]
    **Output:** True
    **Explanation:** (8-4) * (7-1) = 24
    

**Example 2:**  

    
    
    **Input:** [1, 2, 1, 2]
    **Output:** False
    

**Note:**  

  1. The division operator `/` represents real division, not integer division. For example, 4 / (1 - 2/3) = 12.
  2. Every operation done is between two numbers. In particular, we cannot use `-` as a unary operator. For example, with `[1, 1, 1, 1]` as input, the expression `-1 - 1 - 1 - 1` is not allowed.
  3. You cannot concatenate numbers together. For example, if the input is `[1, 2, 1, 2]`, we cannot write this as 12 + 12.

### Solution 1
    
    
    def judgePoint24(self, nums):
        bad = '떢븻각걎냇갅갸꺚뵟숣욄뵴뵞뤼갈갌뤔떌옊메늄숭캸긶꺛옖갍뇐쩢곴듇걯궄옕왹눞솴걃끗긬땉궿가쌀낐걄숤뺴늘걘꽸숢걂갋갃쫐꼔솾쩡쇔솿끛뤜간븺쩬웨딴옠뤛갂뵪덠놤빐옋귒늂갰갖놥궾갆옌뼘묰거갎긷낤겼'
        return chr(int(''.join(map(str, sorted(nums)))) + 42921) not in bad
    

There are really only 495 possible inputs, of which 404 are solvable and 91
aren't. The above is the shortest encoding of those 91 that I could think of.
One character for each case. The +42921 is for getting all characters from the
same unicode range (from the "Hangul Syllables" range) so that it looks good.
For extra style points I shuffled them, otherwise they'd look somewhat sorted.

Edit: Then again, after a few iterations my ["normal"
solution](https://discuss.leetcode.com/topic/104018/short-python) ended up
being _shorter_ than this. But at least this is still much faster and imho
more fun :-)


### Solution 2
    
    
     class Solution {
    
        boolean res = false;
        final double eps = 0.001;
    
        public boolean judgePoint24(int[] nums) {
            List<Double> arr = new ArrayList<>();
            for(int n: nums) arr.add((double) n);
            helper(arr);
            return res;
        }
    
        private void helper(List<Double> arr){
            if(res) return;
            if(arr.size() == 1){
                if(Math.abs(arr.get(0) - 24.0) < eps)
                    res = true;
                return;
            }
            for (int i = 0; i < arr.size(); i++) {
                for (int j = 0; j < i; j++) {
                    List<Double> next = new ArrayList<>();
                    Double p1 = arr.get(i), p2 = arr.get(j);
                    next.addAll(Arrays.asList(p1+p2, p1-p2, p2-p1, p1*p2));
                    if(Math.abs(p2) > eps)  next.add(p1/p2);
                    if(Math.abs(p1) > eps)  next.add(p2/p1);
                    
                    arr.remove(i);
                    arr.remove(j);
                    for (Double n: next){
                        arr.add(n);
                        helper(arr);
                        arr.remove(arr.size()-1);
                    }
                    arr.add(j, p2);
                    arr.add(i, p1);
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    


### Solution 3
    
    
    def judgePoint24(self, nums):
        if len(nums) == 1:
            return math.isclose(nums[0], 24)
        return any(self.judgePoint24([x] + rest)
                   for a, b, *rest in itertools.permutations(nums)
                   for x in {a+b, a-b, a*b, b and a/b})
    

Just go through all pairs of numbers `a` and `b` and replace them with `a+b`,
`a-b`, `a*b` and `a/b`, . Use recursion for the now smaller list. Positive
base case is the list being `[24]` (or close enough).

I prevent division-by-zero by using `b and a/b` instead of just `a/b`. If `b`
is zero, then `b and a/b` is zero. And it's ok to have that zero, since `a*b`
is zero as well. It's not even a _second_ zero, because I'm creating a _set_
of the up to four operation results, so duplicates are ignored immediately.

Oh and note that I'm using Python 3, so `/` is "true" division, not integer
division like in Python 2. And it would be better to use `fractions.Fraction`
instead of floats. I actually just realized that there is in fact an input
where simple floats fail, namely `[3, 3, 8, 8]`. Floats calculate
23.999999999999989341858963598497211933135986328125 instead of 24. It's not in
the judge's test suite, but it should be soon (Edit: it now is). Using
`Fraction` however made my solution exceed the time limit, so I settled for
the above approximation solution.



