---
layout: post
title: 755. Reach a Number
---
### Question
You are standing at position `0` on an infinite number line. There is a goal
at position `target`.

On each move, you can either go left or right. During the _n_ -th move
(starting from 1), you take _n_ steps.

Return the minimum number of steps required to reach the destination.

 **Example 1:**  

    
    
     **Input:** target = 3
    **Output:** 2
    **Explanation:**
    On the first move we step from 0 to 1.
    On the second step we step from 1 to 3.
    

**Example 2:**  

    
    
    **Input:** target = 2
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation:**
    On the first move we step from 0 to 1.
    On the second move we step  from 1 to -1.
    On the third move we step from -1 to 2.
    

**Note:**  

* `target` will be a non-zero integer in the range `[-10^9, 10^9]`.

### Solution 1
Step 0: Get positive `target` value (`step` to get negative `target` is the
same as to get positive value due to symmetry).  
Step 1: Find the smallest `step` that the summation from `1` to `step` just
exceeds or equals`target`.  
Step 2: Find the difference between `sum` and `target`. The goal is to get rid
of the difference to reach `target`. For `ith` move, if we switch the right
move to the left, the change in summation will be `2*i` less. Now the
difference between `sum` and `target` has to be an even number in order for
the math to check out.  
Step 2.1: If the difference value is even, we can return the current `step`.  
Step 2.2: If the difference value is odd, we need to increase the step until
the difference is even (at most 2 more steps needed).  
Eg:  
`target = 5`  
Step 0: `target = 5`.  
Step 1: `sum = 1 + 2 + 3 = 6 > 5`, `step = 3`.  
Step 2: Difference = `6 - 5 = 1`. Since the difference is an odd value, we
will not reach the target by switching any right move to the left. So we
increase our `step`.  
Step 2.2: We need to increase `step` by 2 to get an even difference (i.e. `1 +
2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 15`, now `step = 5`, difference = `15 - 5 = 10`). Now that we
have an even difference, we can simply switch any move to the left (i.e.
change `+` to `-`) as long as the summation of the changed value equals to
half of the difference. We can switch 1 and 4 or 2 and 3 or 5.

    
    
    class Solution {
        public int reachNumber(int target) {
            target = Math.abs(target);
            int step = 0;
            int sum = 0;
            while (sum < target) {
                step++;
                sum += step;
            }
            while ((sum - target) % 2 != 0) {
                step++;
                sum += step;
            }
            return step;
        }
    }
    


### Solution 2
This didn't feel like an easy to me


### Solution 3
  * We can always take abs(target), since the axis is symmetric.

  * First of all we keep adding sum=1+2+..+n>=target, solve this quadratic equation gives the smallest n such that sum>=target.

  * If 1+2+..+n==target, return n.

  * Now we must minus res=sum-target. If res is even, we can flip one number x in [1,n] to be -x.

  * Otherwise if res is odd, and n+1 is odd, we can first add n+1, then res is even. Next flip an x to be -x.

  * If res is odd and n+1 is even, we add n+1 then subtract n+2, res becomes even, then flip an x.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int reachNumber(int target) {
            target = abs(target);
            long long n = ceil((-1.0 + sqrt(1+8.0*target)) / 2);
            long long sum = n * (n+1) / 2;
            if (sum == target) return n;
            long long res = sum - target;
            if ((res&1) == 0) 
                return n;
            else 
                return n+((n&1) ? 2 : 1);
            
        }
    };
    



