---
layout: post
title: 493. Reverse Pairs
---
### Question
Given an array `nums`, we call `(i, j)` an **_important reverse pair_** if `i
< j` and `nums[i] > 2*nums[j]`.

You need to return the number of important reverse pairs in the given array.

 **Example1:**

    
    
     **Input** : [1,3,2,3,1]
    **Output** : 2
    

**Example2:**

    
    
    **Input** : [2,4,3,5,1]
    **Output** : 3
    

**Note:**  

  1. The length of the given array will not exceed `50,000`.
  2. All the numbers in the input array are in the range of 32-bit integer.

### Solution 1
It looks like a host of solutions are out there (`BST`-based, `BIT`-based,
`Merge-sort`-based). Here I'd like to focus on the general principles behind
these solutions and its possible application to a number of similar problems.

The fundamental idea is very simple: **break down the array and solve for the
subproblems**.

A breakdown of an array naturally reminds us of subarrays. To smoothen our
following discussion, let's assume the input array is `nums`, with a total of
`n` elements. Let `nums[i, j]` denote the subarray starting from index `i` to
index `j` (both inclusive), `T(i, j)` as the same problem applied to this
subarray (for example, for [**Reverse
Pairs**](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-pairs/?tab=Description), `T(i,
j)` will represent the total number of important reverse pairs for subarray
`nums[i, j]`).

With the definition above, it's straightforward to identify our original
problem as `T(0, n - 1)`. Now the key point is how to construct solutions to
the original problem from its subproblems. This is essentially equivalent to
building recurrence relations for `T(i, j)`. Since if we can find solutions to
`T(i, j)` from its subproblems, we surely can build solutions to larger
subarrays until eventually the whole array is spanned.

While there may be many ways for establishing recurrence relations for `T(i,
j)`, here I will only introduce the following two common ones:

  1. `T(i, j) = T(i, j - 1) + C`, i.e., elements will be processed sequentially and `C` denotes the subproblem for processing the last element of subarray `nums[i, j]`. We will call this sequential recurrence relation.

  2. `T(i, j) = T(i, m) + T(m + 1, j) + C` where `m = (i+j)/2`, i.e., subarray `nums[i, j]` will be further partitioned into two parts and `C` denotes the subproblem for combining the two parts. We will call this partition recurrence relation.

For either case, the nature of the subproblem `C` will depend on the problem
under consideration, and it will determine the overall time complexity of the
original problem. So usually it's crucial to find efficient algorithm for
solving this subproblem in order to have better time performance. Also pay
attention to possibilities of overlapping subproblems, in which case a dynamic
programming (DP) approach would be preferred.

Next, I will apply these two recurrence relations to this problem "Reverse
Pairs" and list some solutions for your reference.

* * *

 **`I -- Sequential recurrence relation`**

Again we assume the input array is `nums` with `n` elements and `T(i, j)`
denotes the total number of important reverse pairs for subarray `nums[i, j]`.
For sequential recurrence relation, we can set `i = 0`, i.e., the subarray
always starts from the beginning. Therefore we end up with:

`T(0, j) = T(0, j - 1) + C`

where the subproblem `C` now becomes **"find the number of important reverse
pairs with the first element of the pair coming from subarray`nums[0, j - 1]`
while the second element of the pair being `nums[j]`"**.

Note that for a pair `(p, q)` to be an important reverse pair, it has to
satisfy the following two conditions:

  1. `p < q`: the first element must come before the second element;
  2. `nums[p] > 2 * nums[q]`: the first element has to be greater than twice of the second element.

For subproblem `C`, the first condition is met automatically; so we only need
to consider the second condition, which is equivalent to searching for all
elements within subarray `nums[0, j - 1]` that are greater than twice of
`nums[j]`.

The straightforward way of searching would be a linear scan of the subarray,
which runs at the order of `O(j)`. From the sequential recurrence relation,
this leads to the naive `O(n^2)` solution.

To improve the searching efficiency, a key observation is that the order of
elements in the subarray does not matter, since we are only interested in the
total number of important reverse pairs. This suggests we may sort those
elements and do a binary search instead of a plain linear scan.

If the searching space (formed by elements over which the search will be done)
is "static" (it does not vary from run to run), placing the elements into an
array would be perfect for us to do the binary search. However, this is not
the case here. After the `j-th` element is processed, we need to add it to the
searching space so that it becomes searchable for later elements, which
renders the searching space expanding as more and more elements are processed.

Therefore we'd like to strike a balance between searching and insertion
operations. This is where data structures like binary search tree (`BST`) or
binary indexed tree (`BIT`) prevail, which offers relatively fast performance
for both operations.

 **1.`BST`-based solution**

we will define the tree node as follows, where `val` is the node value and
`cnt` is the total number of elements in the subtree rooted at current node
that are greater than or equal to `val`:

    
    
    class Node {
        int val, cnt;
        Node left, right;
            
        Node(int val) {
            this.val = val;
            this.cnt = 1;
        }
    }
    

The searching and insertion operations can be done as follows:

    
    
    private int search(Node root, long val) {
        if (root == null) {
        	return 0;
        } else if (val == root.val) {
        	return root.cnt;
        } else if (val < root.val) {
        	return root.cnt + search(root.left, val);
        } else {
        	return search(root.right, val);
        }
    }
    
    private Node insert(Node root, int val) {
        if (root == null) {
            root = new Node(val);
        } else if (val == root.val) {
            root.cnt++;
        } else if (val < root.val) {
            root.left = insert(root.left, val);
        } else {
            root.cnt++;
            root.right = insert(root.right, val);
        }
        
        return root;
    }
    

And finally the main program, in which we will search for all elements no less
than twice of current element plus `1` (converted to `long` type to avoid
overflow) while insert the element itself into the BST.

**Note:** this homemade BST is not self-balanced and the time complexity can
go as bad as `O(n^2)` (in fact you will get `TLE` if you copy and paste the
solution here). To guarantee `O(nlogn)` performance, use one of the self-
balanced BST's (e.g. `Red-black` tree, `AVL` tree, etc.).

    
    
     public int reversePairs(int[] nums) {
        int res = 0;
        Node root = null;
        	
        for (int ele : nums) {
            res += search(root, 2L * ele + 1);
            root = insert(root, ele);
        }
        
        return res;
    }
    

**2.`BIT`-based solution**

For `BIT`, the searching and insertion operations are:

    
    
    private int search(int[] bit, int i) {
        int sum = 0;
        
        while (i < bit.length) {
            sum += bit[i];
            i += i & -i;
        }
    
        return sum;
    }
    
    private void insert(int[] bit, int i) {
        while (i > 0) {
            bit[i] += 1;
            i -= i & -i;
        }
    }
    

And the main program, where again we will search for all elements greater than
twice of current element while insert the element itself into the BIT. For
each element, the `"index"` function will return its index in the `BIT`.
Unlike the BST-based solution, this is guaranteed to run at `O(nlogn)`.

    
    
    public int reversePairs(int[] nums) {
        int res = 0;
        int[] copy = Arrays.copyOf(nums, nums.length);
        int[] bit = new int[copy.length + 1];
        
        Arrays.sort(copy);
        
        for (int ele : nums) {
            res += search(bit, index(copy, 2L * ele + 1));
            insert(bit, index(copy, ele));
        }
        
        return res;
    }
    
    private int index(int[] arr, long val) {
        int l = 0, r = arr.length - 1, m = 0;
        	
        while (l <= r) {
        	m = l + ((r - l) >> 1);
        		
        	if (arr[m] >= val) {
        	    r = m - 1;
        	} else {
        	    l = m + 1;
        	}
        }
        
        return l + 1;
    }
    

More explanation for the BIT-based solution:

  1. We want the elements to be sorted so there is a sorted version of the input array which is `copy`.

  2. The `bit` is built upon this sorted array. Its length is one greater than that of the `copy` array to account for the root.

  3. Initially the `bit` is empty and we start doing a sequential scan of the input array. For each element being scanned, we first search the `bit` to find all elements greater than twice of it and add the result to `res`. We then insert the element itself into the `bit` for future search.

  4. Note that conventionally searching of the `bit` involves traversing towards the root from some index of the `bit`, which will yield a predefined running total of the `copy` array up to the corresponding index. For insertion, the traversing direction will be opposite and go from some index towards the end of the `bit` array.

  5. For each scanned element of the input array, its searching index will be given by the index of the first element in the `copy` array that is greater than twice of it (shifted up by `1` to account for the root), while its insertion index will be the index of the first element in the `copy` array that is no less than itself (again shifted up by `1`). This is what the `index` function is for.

  6. For our case, the running total is simply the number of elements encountered during the traversal process. If we stick to the convention above, the running total will be the number of elements smaller than the one at the given index, since the `copy` array is sorted in ascending order. However, we'd actually like to find the number of elements greater than some value (i.e., twice of the element being scanned), therefore we need to flip the convention. This is what you see inside the `search` and `insert` functions: the former traversing towards the end of the `bit` while the latter towards the root.

* * *

**`II -- Partition recurrence relation`**

For partition recurrence relation, setting `i = 0, j = n - 1, m = (n-1)/2`, we
have:

`T(0, n - 1) = T(0, m) + T(m + 1, n - 1) + C`

where the subproblem `C` now reads **"find the number of important reverse
pairs with the first element of the pair coming from the left subarray`nums[0,
m]` while the second element of the pair coming from the right subarray
`nums[m + 1, n - 1]`"**.

Again for this subproblem, the first of the two aforementioned conditions is
met automatically. As for the second condition, we have as usual this plain
linear scan algorithm, applied for each element in the left (or right)
subarray. This, to no surprise, leads to the `O(n^2)` naive solution.

Fortunately the observation holds true here that the order of elements in the
left or right subarray does not matter, which prompts sorting of elements in
both subarrays. With both subarrays sorted, the number of important reverse
pairs can be found in linear time by employing the so-called two-pointer
technique: one pointing to elements in the left subarray while the other to
those in the right subarray and both pointers will go only in one direction
due to the ordering of the elements.

The last question is which algorithm is best here to sort the subarrays. Since
we need to partition the array into halves anyway, it is most natural to adapt
it into a `Merge-sort`. Another point in favor of `Merge-sort` is that the
searching process above can be embedded seamlessly into its merging stage.

So here is the `Merge-sort`-based solution, where the function
`"reversePairsSub"` will return the total number of important reverse pairs
within subarray `nums[l, r]`. The two-pointer searching process is represented
by the nested `while` loop involving variable `p`, while the rest is the
standard merging algorithm.

    
    
    public int reversePairs(int[] nums) {
        return reversePairsSub(nums, 0, nums.length - 1);
    }
        
    private int reversePairsSub(int[] nums, int l, int r) {
        if (l >= r) return 0;
            
        int m = l + ((r - l) >> 1);
        int res = reversePairsSub(nums, l, m) + reversePairsSub(nums, m + 1, r);
            
        int i = l, j = m + 1, k = 0, p = m + 1;
        int[] merge = new int[r - l + 1];
            
        while (i <= m) {
            while (p <= r && nums[i] > 2 L * nums[p]) p++;
            res += p - (m + 1);
    				
            while (j <= r && nums[i] >= nums[j]) merge[k++] = nums[j++];
            merge[k++] = nums[i++];
        }
            
        while (j <= r) merge[k++] = nums[j++];
            
        System.arraycopy(merge, 0, nums, l, merge.length);
            
        return res;
    }
    

* * *

**`III -- Summary`**

Many problems involving arrays can be solved by breaking down the problem into
subproblems applied on subarrays and then link the solution to the original
problem with those of the subproblems, to which we have sequential recurrence
relation and partition recurrence relation. For either case, it's crucial to
identify the subproblem `C` and find efficient algorithm for approaching it.

If the subproblem `C` involves searching on "dynamic searching space", try to
consider data structures that support relatively fast operations on both
searching and updating (such as `self-balanced BST`, `BIT`, `Segment tree`,
`...`).

If the subproblem `C` of partition recurrence relation involves sorting,
`Merge-sort` would be a nice sorting algorithm to use. Also, the code could be
made more elegant if the solution to the subproblem can be embedded into the
merging process.

If there are overlapping among the subproblems `T(i, j)`, it's preferable to
cache the intermediate results for future lookup.

Lastly let me name a few leetcode problems that fall into the patterns
described above and thus can be solved with similar ideas.

[315\. Count of Smaller Numbers After
Self](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-of-smaller-numbers-after-self/)  
[327\. Count of Range Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-of-range-sum/)

For `leetcode 315`, applying the sequential recurrence relation (with `j`
fixed), the subproblem `C` reads: **find the number of elements out of visited
ones that are smaller than current element** , which involves searching on
"dynamic searching space"; applying the partition recurrence relation, we have
a subproblem `C`: **for each element in the left half, find the number of
elements in the right half that are smaller than it** , which can be embedded
into the merging process by noting that these elements are exactly those
swapped to its left during the merging process.

For `leetcode 327`, applying the sequential recurrence relation (with `j`
fixed) on the pre-sum array, the subproblem `C` reads: **find the number of
elements out of visited ones that are within the given range** , which again
involves searching on "dynamic searching space"; applying the partition
recurrence relation, we have a subproblem `C`: **for each element in the left
half, find the number of elements in the right half that are within the given
range** , which can be embedded into the merging process using the two-pointer
technique.

Anyway, hope these ideas can sharpen your skills for solving array-related
problems.


### Solution 2
 **MergeSort**

 **Explanation:** In each round, we divide our array into two parts and sort
them. So after "int cnt = mergeSort(nums, s, mid) + mergeSort(nums, mid+1, e);
", the left part and the right part are sorted and now our only job is to
count how many pairs of number (leftPart[i], rightPart[j]) satisfies
leftPart[i]  <= 2*rightPart[j].  
For example,  
left: 4 6 8 right: 1 2 3  
so we use two pointers to travel left and right parts. For each leftPart[i],
if j<=e && nums[i]/2.0 > nums[j], we just continue to move j to the end, to
increase rightPart[j], until it is valid. Like in our example, left's 4 can
match 1 and 2; left's 6 can match 1, 2, 3, and left's 8 can match 1, 2, 3. So
in this particular round, there are 8 pairs found, so we increases our total
by 8.

    
    
    public class Solution {
        public int reversePairs(int[] nums) {
            return mergeSort(nums, 0, nums.length-1);
        }
        private int mergeSort(int[] nums, int s, int e){
            if(s>=e) return 0; 
            int mid = s + (e-s)/2; 
            int cnt = mergeSort(nums, s, mid) + mergeSort(nums, mid+1, e); 
            for(int i = s, j = mid+1; i<=mid; i++){
                while(j<=e && nums[i]/2.0 > nums[j]) j++; 
                cnt += j-(mid+1); 
            }
            Arrays.sort(nums, s, e+1); 
            return cnt; 
        }
    }
    

**Or:**  
Because left part and right part are sorted, you can replace the Arrays.sort()
part with a actual merge sort process. The previous version is easy to write,
while this one is faster.

    
    
     public class Solution {
        int[] helper;
        public int reversePairs(int[] nums) {
            this.helper = new int[nums.length];
            return mergeSort(nums, 0, nums.length-1);
        }
        private int mergeSort(int[] nums, int s, int e){
            if(s>=e) return 0; 
            int mid = s + (e-s)/2; 
            int cnt = mergeSort(nums, s, mid) + mergeSort(nums, mid+1, e); 
            for(int i = s, j = mid+1; i<=mid; i++){
                while(j<=e && nums[i]/2.0 > nums[j]) j++; 
                cnt += j-(mid+1); 
            }
            //Arrays.sort(nums, s, e+1); 
            myMerge(nums, s, mid, e);
            return cnt; 
        }
        
        private void myMerge(int[] nums, int s, int mid, int e){
            for(int i = s; i<=e; i++) helper[i] = nums[i];
            int p1 = s;//pointer for left part
            int p2 = mid+1;//pointer for rigth part
            int i = s;//pointer for sorted array
            while(p1<=mid || p2<=e){
                if(p1>mid || (p2<=e && helper[p1] >= helper[p2])){
                    nums[i++] = helper[p2++];
                }else{
                    nums[i++] = helper[p1++];
                }
            }
        }
    }
    

* * *

**BST**  
BST solution is no longer acceptable, because it's performance can be very
bad, O(n^2) actually, for extreme cases like [1,2,3,4......49999], due to the
its unbalance, but I am still providing it below just FYI.  
We build the Binary Search Tree from right to left, and at the same time,
search the partially built tree with nums[i]/2.0. The code below should be
clear enough.

    
    
     public class Solution {
        public int reversePairs(int[] nums) {
            Node root = null;
            int[] cnt = new int[1];
            for(int i = nums.length-1; i>=0; i--){
                search(cnt, root, nums[i]/2.0);//search and count the partially built tree
                root = build(nums[i], root);//add nums[i] to BST
            }
            return cnt[0];
        }
        
        private void search(int[] cnt, Node node, double target){
            if(node==null) return; 
            else if(target == node.val) cnt[0] += node.less;
            else if(target < node.val) search(cnt, node.left, target);
            else{
                cnt[0]+=node.less + node.same; 
                search(cnt, node.right, target);
            }
        }
        
        private Node build(int val, Node n){
            if(n==null) return new Node(val);
            else if(val == n.val) n.same+=1;
            else if(val > n.val) n.right = build(val, n.right);
            else{
                n.less += 1;
                n.left = build(val, n.left);
            }
            return n;
        }
        
        class Node{
            int val, less = 0, same = 1;//less: number of nodes that less than this node.val
            Node left, right;
            public Node(int v){
                this.val = v;
            }
        }
    }
    

Similar to this <https://leetcode.com/problems/count-of-smaller-numbers-after-
self/>. But the main difference is: here, the number to add and the number to
search are different (add nums[i], but search nums[i]/2.0), so not a good idea
to combine build and search together.


### Solution 3
Just a mergesort solution, but using iterators (instead of indexes) and
`inplace_merge`.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int sort_and_count(vector<int>::iterator begin, vector<int>::iterator end) {
            if (end - begin <= 1)
                return 0;
            auto mid = begin + (end - begin) / 2;
            int count = sort_and_count(begin, mid) + sort_and_count(mid, end);
            for (auto i = begin, j = mid; i != mid; ++i) {
                while (j != end and *i > 2L * *j)
                    ++j;
                count += j - mid;
            }
            inplace_merge(begin, mid, end);
            return count;
        }
    
        int reversePairs(vector<int>& nums) {
            return sort_and_count(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        }
    };
    



