---
layout: post
title: 51. N-Queens
---
### Question
The _n_ -queens puzzle is the problem of placing _n_ queens on an _n_ × _n_
chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

![](https://assets.leetcode.com/uploads/2018/10/12/8-queens.png)

Given an integer _n_ , return all distinct solutions to the _n_ -queens
puzzle.

Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the _n_ -queens'
placement, where `'Q'` and `'.'` both indicate a queen and an empty space
respectively.

 **Example:**

    
    
     **Input:** 4
    **Output:** [
     [".Q..",  // Solution 1
      "...Q",
      "Q...",
      "..Q."],
    
     ["..Q.",  // Solution 2
      "Q...",
      "...Q",
      ".Q.."]
    ]
    **Explanation:** There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above.
    

### Solution 1
In this problem, we can go row by row, and in each position, we need to check
if the `column`, the `45° diagonal` and the `135° diagonal` had a queen
before.

 **Solution A:** Directly check the validity of each position, _12ms_ :

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > solveNQueens(int n) {
            std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > res;
            std::vector<std::string> nQueens(n, std::string(n, '.'));
            solveNQueens(res, nQueens, 0, n);
            return res;
        }
    private:
        void solveNQueens(std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > &res, std::vector<std::string> &nQueens, int row, int &n) {
            if (row == n) {
                res.push_back(nQueens);
                return;
            }
            for (int col = 0; col != n; ++col)
                if (isValid(nQueens, row, col, n)) {
                    nQueens[row][col] = 'Q';
                    solveNQueens(res, nQueens, row + 1, n);
                    nQueens[row][col] = '.';
                }
        }
        bool isValid(std::vector<std::string> &nQueens, int row, int col, int &n) {
            //check if the column had a queen before.
            for (int i = 0; i != row; ++i)
                if (nQueens[i][col] == 'Q')
                    return false;
            //check if the 45° diagonal had a queen before.
            for (int i = row - 1, j = col - 1; i >= 0 && j >= 0; --i, --j)
                if (nQueens[i][j] == 'Q')
                    return false;
            //check if the 135° diagonal had a queen before.
            for (int i = row - 1, j = col + 1; i >= 0 && j < n; --i, ++j)
                if (nQueens[i][j] == 'Q')
                    return false;
            return true;
        }
    };
    

**Solution B:** Use flag vectors as bitmask, _4ms_ :

The number of columns is `n`, the number of 45° diagonals is `2 * n - 1`, the
number of 135° diagonals is also `2 * n - 1`. When reach `[row, col]`, the
column No. is `col`, the 45° diagonal No. is `row + col` and the 135° diagonal
No. is `n - 1 + col - row`. We can use three arrays to indicate if the column
or the diagonal had a queen before, if not, we can put a queen in this
position and continue.

**NOTE:** Please don't use `vector<bool> flag` to replace `vector<int> flag`
in the following C++ code. In fact, `vector<bool>` is not a STL container. You
should avoid to use it. You can also get the knowledge from
[here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17794569/why-is-vectorbool-not-a-
stl-container) and
[here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/670308/alternative-to-vectorbool).

    
    
     /**    | | |                / / /             \ \ \
      *    O O O               O O O               O O O
      *    | | |              / / / /             \ \ \ \
      *    O O O               O O O               O O O
      *    | | |              / / / /             \ \ \ \ 
      *    O O O               O O O               O O O
      *    | | |              / / /                 \ \ \
      *   3 columns        5 45° diagonals     5 135° diagonals    (when n is 3)
      */
    class Solution {
    public:
        std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > solveNQueens(int n) {
            std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > res;
            std::vector<std::string> nQueens(n, std::string(n, '.'));
            std::vector<int> flag_col(n, 1), flag_45(2 * n - 1, 1), flag_135(2 * n - 1, 1);
            solveNQueens(res, nQueens, flag_col, flag_45, flag_135, 0, n);
            return res;
        }
    private:
        void solveNQueens(std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > &res, std::vector<std::string> &nQueens, std::vector<int> &flag_col, std::vector<int> &flag_45, std::vector<int> &flag_135, int row, int &n) {
            if (row == n) {
                res.push_back(nQueens);
                return;
            }
            for (int col = 0; col != n; ++col)
                if (flag_col[col] && flag_45[row + col] && flag_135[n - 1 + col - row]) {
                    flag_col[col] = flag_45[row + col] = flag_135[n - 1 + col - row] = 0;
                    nQueens[row][col] = 'Q';
                    solveNQueens(res, nQueens, flag_col, flag_45, flag_135, row + 1, n);
                    nQueens[row][col] = '.';
                    flag_col[col] = flag_45[row + col] = flag_135[n - 1 + col - row] = 1;
                }
        }
    };
    

But we actually do not need to use three arrays, we just need one. Now, when
reach `[row, col]`, the subscript of column is `col`, the subscript of 45°
diagonal is `n + row + col` and the subscript of 135° diagonal is `n + 2 * n -
1 + n - 1 + col - row`.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > solveNQueens(int n) {
            std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > res;
            std::vector<std::string> nQueens(n, std::string(n, '.'));
            /*
            flag[0] to flag[n - 1] to indicate if the column had a queen before.
            flag[n] to flag[3 * n - 2] to indicate if the 45° diagonal had a queen before.
            flag[3 * n - 1] to flag[5 * n - 3] to indicate if the 135° diagonal had a queen before.
            */
            std::vector<int> flag(5 * n - 2, 1);
            solveNQueens(res, nQueens, flag, 0, n);
            return res;
        }
    private:
        void solveNQueens(std::vector<std::vector<std::string> > &res, std::vector<std::string> &nQueens, std::vector<int> &flag, int row, int &n) {
            if (row == n) {
                res.push_back(nQueens);
                return;
            }
            for (int col = 0; col != n; ++col)
                if (flag[col] && flag[n + row + col] && flag[4 * n - 2 + col - row]) {
                    flag[col] = flag[n + row + col] = flag[4 * n - 2 + col - row] = 0;
                    nQueens[row][col] = 'Q';
                    solveNQueens(res, nQueens, flag, row + 1, n);
                    nQueens[row][col] = '.';
                    flag[col] = flag[n + row + col] = flag[4 * n - 2 + col - row] = 1;
                }
        }
    };


### Solution 2
ideas:  
  
Use the `DFS` helper function to find solutions recursively. A solution will
be found when the length of `queens` is equal to `n` ( `queens` is a list of
the indices of the queens).  
  
  
In this problem, whenever a location `(x, y`) is occupied, any other locations
`(p, q )` where `p + q == x + y` or `p - q == x - y` would be invalid. We can
use this information to keep track of the indicators (`xy_dif` and `xy_sum` )
of the invalid positions and then call DFS recursively with valid positions
only.  
  

At the end, we convert the result (a list of lists; each sublist is the
indices of the queens) into the desire format.

    
    
    def solveNQueens(self, n):
        def DFS(queens, xy_dif, xy_sum):
            p = len(queens)
            if p==n:
                result.append(queens)
                return None
            for q in range(n):
                if q not in queens and p-q not in xy_dif and p+q not in xy_sum: 
                    DFS(queens+[q], xy_dif+[p-q], xy_sum+[p+q])  
        result = []
        DFS([],[],[])
        return [ ["."*i + "Q" + "."*(n-i-1) for i in sol] for sol in result]


### Solution 3
    
    
    public class Solution {
        public List<List<String>> solveNQueens(int n) {
            char[][] board = new char[n][n];
            for(int i = 0; i < n; i++)
                for(int j = 0; j < n; j++)
                    board[i][j] = '.';
            List<List<String>> res = new ArrayList<List<String>>();
            dfs(board, 0, res);
            return res;
        }
        
        private void dfs(char[][] board, int colIndex, List<List<String>> res) {
            if(colIndex == board.length) {
                res.add(construct(board));
                return;
            }
            
            for(int i = 0; i < board.length; i++) {
                if(validate(board, i, colIndex)) {
                    board[i][colIndex] = 'Q';
                    dfs(board, colIndex + 1, res);
                    board[i][colIndex] = '.';
                }
            }
        }
        
        private boolean validate(char[][] board, int x, int y) {
            for(int i = 0; i < board.length; i++) {
                for(int j = 0; j < y; j++) {
                    if(board[i][j] == 'Q' && (x + j == y + i || x + y == i + j || x == i))
                        return false;
                }
            }
            
            return true;
        }
        
        private List<String> construct(char[][] board) {
            List<String> res = new LinkedList<String>();
            for(int i = 0; i < board.length; i++) {
                String s = new String(board[i]);
                res.add(s);
            }
            return res;
        }
    }



