---
layout: post
title: 324. Wiggle Sort II
---
### Question
Given an unsorted array `nums`, reorder it such that `nums[0] < nums[1] >
nums[2] < nums[3]...`.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:**nums = [1, 5, 1, 1, 6, 4]
    **Output:** One possible answer is [1, 4, 1, 5, 1, 6].

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:**nums = [1, 3, 2, 2, 3, 1]
    **Output:** One possible answer is [2, 3, 1, 3, 1, 2].

 **Note:**  
You may assume all input has valid answer.

 **Follow Up:**  
Can you do it in O(n) time and/or in-place with O(1) extra space?

### Solution 1
This post is mainly about what I call "virtual indexing" technique (I'm sure
I'm not the first who came up with this, but I couldn't find anything about
it, so I made up a name as well. If you know better, let me know).

* * *

## Solution

    
    
    void wiggleSort(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        
        // Find a median.
        auto midptr = nums.begin() + n / 2;
        nth_element(nums.begin(), midptr, nums.end());
        int mid = *midptr;
        
        // Index-rewiring.
        #define A(i) nums[(1+2*(i)) % (n|1)]
    
        // 3-way-partition-to-wiggly in O(n) time with O(1) space.
        int i = 0, j = 0, k = n - 1;
        while (j <= k) {
            if (A(j) > mid)
                swap(A(i++), A(j++));
            else if (A(j) < mid)
                swap(A(j), A(k--));
            else
                j++;
        }
    }
    

* * *

## Explanation

First I find a median using `nth_element`. That only guarantees O(n)
**average** time complexity and I don't know about space complexity. I might
write this myself using O(n) time and O(1) space, but that's not what I want
to show here.

This post is about what comes **after** that. We can use [three-way
partitioning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_national_flag_problem#Pseudocode)
to arrange the numbers so that those _larger than_ the median come first, then
those _equal to_ the median come next, and then those _smaller than_ the
median come last.

Ordinarily, you'd then use one more phase to bring the numbers to their final
positions to reach the overall wiggle-property. But I don't know a nice O(1)
space way for this. Instead, I embed this right into the partitioning
algorithm. That algorithm simply works with indexes 0 to n-1 as usual, but
sneaky as I am, I rewire those indexes where I want the numbers to actually
end up. The partitioning-algorithm doesn't even know that I'm doing that, it
just works like normal (it just uses `A(x)` instead of `nums[x]`).

Let's say `nums` is `[10,11,...,19]`. Then after nth_element and ordinary
partitioning, we might have this (15 is my median):

    
    
    index:     0  1  2  3   4   5  6  7  8  9
    number:   18 17 19 16  15  11 14 10 13 12
    

I rewire it so that the first spot has index 5, the second spot has index 0,
etc, so that I might get this instead:

    
    
    index:     5  0  6  1  7  2  8  3  9  4
    number:   11 18 14 17 10 19 13 16 12 15
    

And 11 18 14 17 10 19 13 16 12 15 is perfectly wiggly. And the whole
partitioning-to-wiggly-arrangement (everything after finding the median) only
takes O(n) time and O(1) space.

* * *

If the above description is unclear, maybe this explicit listing helps:

Accessing `A(0)` actually accesses `nums[1]`.  
Accessing `A(1)` actually accesses `nums[3]`.  
Accessing `A(2)` actually accesses `nums[5]`.  
Accessing `A(3)` actually accesses `nums[7]`.  
Accessing `A(4)` actually accesses `nums[9]`.  
Accessing `A(5)` actually accesses `nums[0]`.  
Accessing `A(6)` actually accesses `nums[2]`.  
Accessing `A(7)` actually accesses `nums[4]`.  
Accessing `A(8)` actually accesses `nums[6]`.  
Accessing `A(9)` actually accesses `nums[8]`.

* * *

Props to [apolloydy's solution](https://leetcode.com/discuss/77053/time-and-
cheating-space-solution-will-there-be-real-solution?show=77054#a77054), I knew
the partitioning algorithm already but I didn't know the name. And apolloydy's
idea to partition to reverse order happened to make the index rewiring
simpler.


### Solution 2
The virtual index idea in the post
<https://leetcode.com/discuss/77133/o-n-o-1-after-median-virtual-indexing>  
is very brilliant! However, it takes me a while to understand why and how it
works. There is no 'nth_element' in Java, but you can use 'findKthLargest'
function from "<https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-largest-element-in-an-
array/>" to get the median element in average O(n) time and O(1) space.

Assume your original array is {6,13,5,4,5,2}. After you get median element,
the 'nums' is partially sorted such that the first half is larger or equal to
the median, the second half is smaller or equal to the median, i.e

    
    
    13   6   5   5   4   2
    
             M
    

In the post <https://leetcode.com/discuss/76965/3-lines-python-with-
explanation-proof>, we have learned that , to get wiggle sort, you want to put
the number in the following way such that

(1) elements smaller than the 'median' are put into the last even slots

(2) elements larger than the 'median' are put into the first odd slots

(3) the medians are put into the remaining slots.

    
    
    Index :       0   1   2   3   4   5
    Small half:   M       S       S    
    Large half:       L       L       M
    

M - Median, S-Small, L-Large. In this example, we want to put {13, 6, 5} in
index 1,3,5 and {5,4,2} in index {0,2,4}

The index mapping, (1 + 2*index) % (n | 1) combined with 'Color sort', will do
the job.

After selecting the median element, which is 5 in this example, we continue as
the following

    
    
    Mapped_idx[Left] denotes the position where the next smaller-than median element  will be inserted.
    Mapped_idx[Right] denotes the position where the next larger-than median element  will be inserted.
    
    
    Step 1: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        13   6    5    5    4    2 
                 Left
                  i
                                          Right
     nums[Mapped_idx[i]] = nums[1] = 6 > 5, so it is ok to put 6 in the first odd index 1. We increment i and left.
    
    
    Step 2: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        13   6    5    5    4    2 
                      Left
                       i
                                          Right
     nums[3] = 5 = 5, so it is ok to put 6 in the index 3. We increment i.
    
    
    Step 3: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        13   6    5    5    4    2 
                      Left
                            i
                                         Right
     nums[5] = 2 < 5, so we want to put it to the last even index 4 (pointed by Right). So, we swap nums[Mapped_idx[i]] with nums[Mapped_idx[Right]], i.e. nums[5] with nums[4], and decrement Right. 
    
    
    
    
    Step 4: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        13   6    5    5    2    4 
                      Left
                            i
                                   Right
     nums[5] = 4 < 5, so we want to put it to the second last even index 2. So, we swap nums[5] with nums[2], and decrement Right. 
    
    
    
    
    Step 5: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        13   6    4    5    2    5 
                      Left
                            i
                                Right
     nums[5] = 5 < 5, it is ok to put it there, we increment i.
    
    
    Step 6: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        13   6    4    5    2    5 
                      Left
                                 i
                                Right
     nums[0] = 13 > 5, so, we want to put it to the next odd index which is 3 (pointed by 'Left'). So, we swap nums[0] with nums[3], and increment 'Left' and 'i'.
    
    
    Step Final: 
    Original idx: 0    1    2    3    4    5  
    Mapped idx:   1    3    5    0    2    4 
    Array:        5    6    4    13   2    5 
                          Left
                                      i
                                Right
    i > Right, we get the final wiggle array 5 6 4 13 2 5 !
    

The code is the following:

    
    
       public void wiggleSort(int[] nums) {
            int median = findKthLargest(nums, (nums.length + 1) / 2);
            int n = nums.length;
    
            int left = 0, i = 0, right = n - 1;
    
            while (i <= right) {
    
                if (nums[newIndex(i,n)] > median) {
                    swap(nums, newIndex(left++,n), newIndex(i++,n));
                }
                else if (nums[newIndex(i,n)] < median) {
                    swap(nums, newIndex(right--,n), newIndex(i,n));
                }
                else {
                    i++;
                }
            }
    
    
        }
    
        private int newIndex(int index, int n) {
            return (1 + 2*index) % (n | 1);
        }


### Solution 3
## Solution

Roughly speaking I put the smaller half of the numbers on the even indexes and
the larger half on the odd indexes.

    
    
    def wiggleSort(self, nums):
        nums.sort()
        half = len(nums[::2])
        nums[::2], nums[1::2] = nums[:half][::-1], nums[half:][::-1]
    

Alternative, maybe nicer, maybe not:

    
    
    def wiggleSort(self, nums):
        nums.sort()
        half = len(nums[::2]) - 1
        nums[::2], nums[1::2] = nums[half::-1], nums[:half:-1]
    

* * *

## **Explanation / Proof**

I put the smaller half of the numbers on the even indexes and the larger half
on the odd indexes, both from right to left:

    
    
    Example nums = [1,2,...,7]      Example nums = [1,2,...,8] 
    
    Small half:  4 . 3 . 2 . 1      Small half:  4 . 3 . 2 . 1 .
    Large half:  . 7 . 6 . 5 .      Large half:  . 8 . 7 . 6 . 5
    --------------------------      --------------------------
    Together:    4 7 3 6 2 5 1      Together:    4 8 3 7 2 6 1 5
    

I want:

  * Odd-index numbers are larger than their neighbors.

Since I put the larger numbers on the odd indexes, clearly I already have:

  * Odd-index numbers are larger than **or equal to** their neighbors.

Could they be "equal to"? That would require some number M to appear both in
the smaller and the larger half. It would be the largest in the smaller half
and the smallest in the larger half. Examples again, where S means some number
smaller than M and L means some number larger than M.

    
    
    Small half:  M . S . S . S      Small half:  M . S . S . S .
    Large half:  . L . L . M .      Large half:  . L . L . L . M
    --------------------------      --------------------------
    Together:    M L S L S M S      Together:    M L S L S L S M
    

You can see the two M are quite far apart. Of course M could appear more than
just twice, for example:

    
    
    Small half:  M . M . S . S      Small half:  M . S . S . S .
    Large half:  . L . L . M .      Large half:  . L . M . M . M
    --------------------------      --------------------------
    Together:    M L M L S M S      Together:    M L S M S M S M
    

You can see that with seven numbers, three M are no problem. And with eight
numbers, four M are no problem. Should be easy to see that in general, with n
numbers, floor(n/2) times M is no problem. Now, if there were more M than
that, then my method would fail. But... it would also be impossible:

  * If n is even, then having more than n/2 times the same number clearly is unsolvable, because you'd have to put two of them next to each other, no matter how you arrange them.
  * If n is odd, then the only way to successfully arrange a number appearing more than floor(n/2) times is if it appears exactly floor(n/2)+1 times and you put them on all the even indexes. And to have the wiggle-property, all the other numbers would have to be larger. But then we wouldn't have an M in both the smaller and the larger half.

So if the input has a valid answer at all, then my code will find one.



