---
layout: post
title: 16. 3Sum Closest
---
### Question
Given an array `nums` of _n_ integers and an integer `target`, find three
integers in `nums` such that the sum is closest to `target`. Return the sum of
the three integers. You may assume that each input would have exactly one
solution.

 **Example:**

    
    
    Given array nums = [-1, 2, 1, -4], and target = 1.
    
    The sum that is closest to the target is 2. (-1 + 2 + 1 = 2).
    

### Solution 1
Similar to 3 Sum problem, use 3 pointers to point current element, next
element and the last element. If the sum is less than target, it means we have
to add a larger element so next element move to the next. If the sum is
greater, it means we have to add a smaller element so last element move to the
second last element. Keep doing this until the end. Each time compare the
difference between sum and target, if it is less than minimum difference so
far, then replace result with it, otherwise keep iterating.

    
    
    public class Solution {
        public int threeSumClosest(int[] num, int target) {
            int result = num[0] + num[1] + num[num.length - 1];
            Arrays.sort(num);
            for (int i = 0; i < num.length - 2; i++) {
                int start = i + 1, end = num.length - 1;
                while (start < end) {
                    int sum = num[i] + num[start] + num[end];
                    if (sum > target) {
                        end--;
                    } else {
                        start++;
                    }
                    if (Math.abs(sum - target) < Math.abs(result - target)) {
                        result = sum;
                    }
                }
            }
            return result;
        }
    }


### Solution 2
Sort the vector and then no need to run _O(N^3)_ algorithm as each index has a
direction to move.

The code starts from this formation.

    
    
    ----------------------------------------------------
    ^  ^                                               ^
    |  |                                               |
    |  +- second                                     third
    +-first
    

if _nums[first] + nums[second] + nums[third]_ is smaller than the _target_ ,
we know we have to increase the sum. so only choice is moving the second index
forward.

    
    
    ----------------------------------------------------
    ^    ^                                             ^
    |    |                                             |
    |    +- second                                   third
    +-first
    

if the _sum_ is bigger than the _target_ , we know that we need to reduce the
_sum_. so only choice is moving ' _third_ ' to backward. of course if the
_sum_ equals to _target_ , we can immediately return the _sum_.

    
    
     ----------------------------------------------------
    ^    ^                                          ^
    |    |                                          |
    |    +- second                                third
    +-first
    

when _second_ and _third_ cross, the round is done so start next round by
moving ' _first_ ' and resetting _second_ and _third_.

    
    
     ----------------------------------------------------
      ^    ^                                           ^
      |    |                                           |
      |    +- second                                 third
      +-first
    

while doing this, collect the _closest sum_ of each stage by calculating and
comparing delta. Compare _abs(target-newSum)_ and _abs(target-closest)_. At
the end of the process the three indexes will eventually be gathered at the
end of the array.

    
    
     ----------------------------------------------------
                                             ^    ^    ^
                                             |    |    `- third
                                             |    +- second
                                             +-first
    

if no exactly matching _sum_ has been found so far, the value in _closest_
will be the answer.

    
    
     int threeSumClosest(vector<int>& nums, int target) {
        if(nums.size() < 3) return 0;
        int closest = nums[0]+nums[1]+nums[2];
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        for(int first = 0 ; first < nums.size()-2 ; ++first) {
            if(first > 0 && nums[first] == nums[first-1]) continue;
            int second = first+1;
            int third = nums.size()-1;            
            while(second < third) {
                int curSum = nums[first]+nums[second]+nums[third];
                if(curSum == target) return curSum;
                if(abs(target-curSum)<abs(target-closest)) {
                    closest = curSum;
                }
                if(curSum > target) {
                    --third;
                } else {
                    ++second;
                }
            }
        }
        return closest;
    }


### Solution 3
Here is a solution in Order(N^2). I got help from this post on  
[stackoverflow][1]  
  
Can we improve this time complexity ?

    
    
    int threeSumClosest(vector<int> &num, int target) {        
        vector<int> v(num.begin(), num.end()); // I didn't wanted to disturb original array.
        int n = 0;
        int ans = 0;
        int sum;
        
        sort(v.begin(), v.end());
        
        // If less then 3 elements then return their sum
        while (v.size() <= 3) {
            return accumulate(v.begin(), v.end(), 0);
        }
        
        n = v.size();
        
        /* v[0] v[1] v[2] ... v[i] .... v[j] ... v[k] ... v[n-2] v[n-1]
         *                    v[i]  <=  v[j]  <= v[k] always, because we sorted our array. 
         * Now, for each number, v[i] : we look for pairs v[j] & v[k] such that 
         * absolute value of (target - (v[i] + v[j] + v[k]) is minimised.
         * if the sum of the triplet is greater then the target it implies
         * we need to reduce our sum, so we do K = K - 1, that is we reduce
         * our sum by taking a smaller number.
         * Simillarly if sum of the triplet is less then the target then we
         * increase out sum by taking a larger number, i.e. J = J + 1.
         */
        ans = v[0] + v[1] + v[2];
        for (int i = 0; i < n-2; i++) {
            int j = i + 1;
            int k = n - 1;
            while (j < k) {
                sum = v[i] + v[j] + v[k];
                if (abs(target - ans) > abs(target - sum)) {
                    ans = sum;
                    if (ans == target) return ans;
                }
                (sum > target) ? k-- : j++;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
    

**Edit:** Thanks @thr for pointing out that. I have corrected it and also
renamed 'mx' by 'ans'.  
[1]: <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2070359/finding-three-elements-in-an-
array-whose-sum-is-closest-to-an-given-number>



