---
layout: post
title: 146. LRU Cache
---
### Question
Design and implement a data structure for [Least Recently Used (LRU)
cache](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_replacement_policies#LRU). It
should support the following operations: `get` and `put`.

`get(key)` \- Get the value (will always be positive) of the key if the key
exists in the cache, otherwise return -1.  
`put(key, value)` \- Set or insert the value if the key is not already
present. When the cache reached its capacity, it should invalidate the least
recently used item before inserting a new item.

The cache is initialized with a **positive** capacity.

 **Follow up:**  
Could you do both operations in **O(1)** time complexity?

 **Example:**

    
    
    LRUCache cache = new LRUCache( 2 /* capacity */ );
    
    cache.put(1, 1);
    cache.put(2, 2);
    cache.get(1);       // returns 1
    cache.put(3, 3);    // evicts key 2
    cache.get(2);       // returns -1 (not found)
    cache.put(4, 4);    // evicts key 1
    cache.get(1);       // returns -1 (not found)
    cache.get(3);       // returns 3
    cache.get(4);       // returns 4
    

### Solution 1
The problem can be solved with a hashtable that keeps track of the keys and
its values in the double linked list. One interesting property about double
linked list is that the node can remove itself without other reference. In
addition, it takes constant time to add and remove nodes from the head or
tail.

One particularity about the double linked list that I implemented is that I
create a pseudo head and tail to mark the boundary, so that we don't need to
check the NULL node during the update. This makes the code more concise and
clean, and also it is good for the performance.

Voila, here is the code.

    
    
    import java.util.Hashtable;
    
    
    public class LRUCache {
    
    class DLinkedNode {
      int key;
      int value;
      DLinkedNode pre;
      DLinkedNode post;
    }
    
    /**
     * Always add the new node right after head;
     */
    private void addNode(DLinkedNode node) {
        
      node.pre = head;
      node.post = head.post;
    
      head.post.pre = node;
      head.post = node;
    }
    
    /**
     * Remove an existing node from the linked list.
     */
    private void removeNode(DLinkedNode node){
      DLinkedNode pre = node.pre;
      DLinkedNode post = node.post;
    
      pre.post = post;
      post.pre = pre;
    }
    
    /**
     * Move certain node in between to the head.
     */
    private void moveToHead(DLinkedNode node){
      this.removeNode(node);
      this.addNode(node);
    }
    
    // pop the current tail. 
    private DLinkedNode popTail(){
      DLinkedNode res = tail.pre;
      this.removeNode(res);
      return res;
    }
    
    private Hashtable<Integer, DLinkedNode> 
      cache = new Hashtable<Integer, DLinkedNode>();
    private int count;
    private int capacity;
    private DLinkedNode head, tail;
    
    public LRUCache(int capacity) {
      this.count = 0;
      this.capacity = capacity;
    
      head = new DLinkedNode();
      head.pre = null;
    
      tail = new DLinkedNode();
      tail.post = null;
    
      head.post = tail;
      tail.pre = head;
    }
    
    public int get(int key) {
    
      DLinkedNode node = cache.get(key);
      if(node == null){
        return -1; // should raise exception here.
      }
    
      // move the accessed node to the head;
      this.moveToHead(node);
    
      return node.value;
    }
    
    
    public void put(int key, int value) {
      DLinkedNode node = cache.get(key);
    
      if(node == null){
    
        DLinkedNode newNode = new DLinkedNode();
        newNode.key = key;
        newNode.value = value;
    
        this.cache.put(key, newNode);
        this.addNode(newNode);
    
        ++count;
    
        if(count > capacity){
          // pop the tail
          DLinkedNode tail = this.popTail();
          this.cache.remove(tail.key);
          --count;
        }
      }else{
        // update the value.
        node.value = value;
        this.moveToHead(node);
      }
    }
    
    }
    


### Solution 2
    
    
    class Node:
    def __init__(self, k, v):
        self.key = k
        self.val = v
        self.prev = None
        self.next = None
    
    class LRUCache:
    def __init__(self, capacity):
        self.capacity = capacity
        self.dic = dict()
        self.head = Node(0, 0)
        self.tail = Node(0, 0)
        self.head.next = self.tail
        self.tail.prev = self.head
    
    def get(self, key):
        if key in self.dic:
            n = self.dic[key]
            self._remove(n)
            self._add(n)
            return n.val
        return -1
    
    def set(self, key, value):
        if key in self.dic:
            self._remove(self.dic[key])
        n = Node(key, value)
        self._add(n)
        self.dic[key] = n
        if len(self.dic) > self.capacity:
            n = self.head.next
            self._remove(n)
            del self.dic[n.key]
    
    def _remove(self, node):
        p = node.prev
        n = node.next
        p.next = n
        n.prev = p
    
    def _add(self, node):
        p = self.tail.prev
        p.next = node
        self.tail.prev = node
        node.prev = p
        node.next = self.tail


### Solution 3
This is the laziest implementation using Java's LinkedHashMap. In the real
interview, however, it is definitely not what interviewer expected.

    
    
        import java.util.LinkedHashMap;
        public class LRUCache {
            private LinkedHashMap<Integer, Integer> map;
            private final int CAPACITY;
            public LRUCache(int capacity) {
                CAPACITY = capacity;
                map = new LinkedHashMap<Integer, Integer>(capacity, 0.75f, true){
                    protected boolean removeEldestEntry(Map.Entry eldest) {
                        return size() > CAPACITY;
                    }
                };
            }
            public int get(int key) {
                return map.getOrDefault(key, -1);
            }
            public void set(int key, int value) {
                map.put(key, value);
            }
        }
    

Several points to mention:  

  1. In the constructor, the third boolean parameter specifies the ordering mode. If we set it to true, it will be in access order. (<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/LinkedHashMap.html#LinkedHashMap-int-float-boolean->)  

  2. By overriding removeEldestEntry in this way, we do not need to take care of it ourselves. It will automatically remove the least recent one when the size of map exceeds the specified capacity.(<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/LinkedHashMap.html#removeEldestEntry-java.util.Map.Entry->)

Below is a "normal" HashMap + doubly-linked list implementation:

    
    
    public class LRUCache {
        private class Node{
            int key, value;
            Node prev, next;
            Node(int k, int v){
                this.key = k;
                this.value = v;
            }
            Node(){
                this(0, 0);
            }
        }
        private int capacity, count;
        private Map<Integer, Node> map;
        private Node head, tail;
        
        public LRUCache(int capacity) {
            this.capacity = capacity;
            this.count = 0;
            map = new HashMap<>();
            head = new Node();
            tail = new Node();
            head.next = tail;
            tail.prev = head;
        }
        
        public int get(int key) {
            Node n = map.get(key);
            if(null==n){
                return -1;
            }
            update(n);
            return n.value;
        }
        
        public void set(int key, int value) {
            Node n = map.get(key);
            if(null==n){
                n = new Node(key, value);
                map.put(key, n);
                add(n);
                ++count;
            }
            else{
                n.value = value;
                update(n);
            }
            if(count>capacity){
                Node toDel = tail.prev;
                remove(toDel);
                map.remove(toDel.key);
                --count;
            }
        }
        
        private void update(Node node){
            remove(node);
            add(node);
        }
        private void add(Node node){
            Node after = head.next;
            head.next = node;
            node.prev = head;
            node.next = after;
            after.prev = node;
        }
        
        private void remove(Node node){
            Node before = node.prev, after = node.next;
            before.next = after;
            after.prev = before;
        }
    }



