---
layout: post
title: 299. Bulls and Cows
---
### Question
You are playing the following [Bulls and
Cows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulls_and_Cows) game with your friend: You
write down a number and ask your friend to guess what the number is. Each time
your friend makes a guess, you provide a hint that indicates how many digits
in said guess match your secret number exactly in both digit and position
(called "bulls") and how many digits match the secret number but locate in the
wrong position (called "cows"). Your friend will use successive guesses and
hints to eventually derive the secret number.

Write a function to return a hint according to the secret number and friend's
guess, use `A` to indicate the bulls and `B` to indicate the cows.

Please note that both secret number and friend's guess may contain duplicate
digits.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** secret = "1807", guess = "7810"
    
    **Output:** "1A3B"
    
    **Explanation:** 1 bull and 3 cows. The bull is 8 , the cows are 0, 1 and 7.

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** secret = "1123", guess = "0111"
    
    **Output:** "1A1B"
    
    **Explanation:** The 1st 1 in friend's guess is a bull, the 2nd or 3rd 1 is a cow.

 **Note:** You may assume that the secret number and your friend's guess only
contain digits, and their lengths are always equal.

### Solution 1
The idea is to iterate over the numbers in `secret` and in `guess` and count
all bulls right away. For cows maintain an array that stores count of the
number appearances in `secret` and in `guess`. Increment cows when either
number from `secret` was already seen in `guest` or vice versa.

    
    
    public String getHint(String secret, String guess) {
        int bulls = 0;
        int cows = 0;
        int[] numbers = new int[10];
        for (int i = 0; i<secret.length(); i++) {
            int s = Character.getNumericValue(secret.charAt(i));
            int g = Character.getNumericValue(guess.charAt(i));
            if (s == g) bulls++;
            else {
                if (numbers[s] < 0) cows++;
                if (numbers[g] > 0) cows++;
                numbers[s] ++;
                numbers[g] --;
            }
        }
        return bulls + "A" + cows + "B";
    }
    

A slightly more concise version:

    
    
    public String getHint(String secret, String guess) {
        int bulls = 0;
        int cows = 0;
        int[] numbers = new int[10];
        for (int i = 0; i<secret.length(); i++) {
            if (secret.charAt(i) == guess.charAt(i)) bulls++;
            else {
                if (numbers[secret.charAt(i)-'0']++ < 0) cows++;
                if (numbers[guess.charAt(i)-'0']-- > 0) cows++;
            }
        }
        return bulls + "A" + cows + "B";
    }


### Solution 2
The idea is simple, if two char is match, add aCnt, otherwise, record it and
process bCnt in second pass.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        // only contains digits 
        string getHint(string secret, string guess) {
            int aCnt = 0;
            int bCnt = 0;
            vector<int> sVec(10, 0); // 0 ~ 9 for secret
            vector<int> gVec(10, 0); // 0 ~ 9 for guess 
            if (secret.size() != guess.size() || secret.empty()) { return "0A0B"; }
            for (int i = 0; i < secret.size(); ++i) {
                char c1 = secret[i]; char c2 = guess[i];
                if (c1 == c2) {
                    ++aCnt; 
                } else {
                    ++sVec[c1-'0'];
                    ++gVec[c2-'0'];
                }
            }
            // count b 
            for (int i = 0; i < sVec.size(); ++i) {
                bCnt += min(sVec[i], gVec[i]);
            }
            return to_string(aCnt) + 'A' + to_string(bCnt) + 'B';
        }
    };


### Solution 3
use `Counter` to count `guess` and `secret` and sum their overlap. Then use
`zip` to count `A`.

    
    
        s, g = Counter(secret), Counter(guess)
        a = sum(i == j for i, j in zip(secret, guess))
        return '%sA%sB' % (a, sum((s & g).values()) - a)



