---
layout: post
title: 127. Word Ladder
---
### Question
Given two words ( _beginWord_ and _endWord_ ), and a dictionary's word list,
find the length of shortest transformation sequence from _beginWord_ to
_endWord_ , such that:

  1. Only one letter can be changed at a time.
  2. Each transformed word must exist in the word list. Note that _beginWord_ is _not_ a transformed word.

 **Note:**

  * Return 0 if there is no such transformation sequence.
  * All words have the same length.
  * All words contain only lowercase alphabetic characters.
  * You may assume no duplicates in the word list.
  * You may assume _beginWord_ and _endWord_ are non-empty and are not the same.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:**
    beginWord = "hit",
    endWord = "cog",
    wordList = ["hot","dot","dog","lot","log","cog"]
    
    **Output:** 5
    
    **Explanation:** As one shortest transformation is "hit" - > "hot" -> "dot" -> "dog" -> "cog",
    return its length 5.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:**
    beginWord = "hit"
    endWord = "cog"
    wordList = ["hot","dot","dog","lot","log"]
    
    **Output:**  0
    
    **Explanation:**  The endWord "cog" is not in wordList, therefore no possible ** ** transformation.
    

### Solution 1
This problem has a nice BFS structure. Let's illustrate this using the example
in the problem statement.

    
    
    beginWord = "hit",
    endWord = "cog",
    wordList = ["hot","dot","dog","lot","log","cog"]
    

Since only one letter can be changed at a time, if we start from `"hit"`, we
can only change to those words which have exactly one letter different from it
(in this case, `"hot"`). Putting in graph-theoretic terms, `"hot"` is a
neighbor of `"hit"`. The idea is simpy to start from the `beginWord`, then
visit its neighbors, then the non-visited neighbors of its neighbors until we
arrive at the `endWord`. This is a typical BFS structure.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int ladderLength(string beginWord, string endWord, vector<string>& wordList) {
            unordered_set<string> dict(wordList.begin(), wordList.end());
            queue<string> todo;
            todo.push(beginWord);
            int ladder = 1;
            while (!todo.empty()) {
                int n = todo.size();
                for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
                    string word = todo.front();
                    todo.pop();
                    if (word == endWord) {
                        return ladder;
                    }
                    dict.erase(word);
                    for (int j = 0; j < word.size(); j++) {
                        char c = word[j];
                        for (int k = 0; k < 26; k++) {
                            word[j] = 'a' + k;
                            if (dict.find(word) != dict.end()) {
                                todo.push(word);
                            }
                         }
                        word[j] = c;
                    }
                }
                ladder++;
            }
            return 0;
        }
    };
    

The above code starts from a single end `beginWord`. We may also start from
the `endWord` simultaneously. Once we meet the same word, we are done. [This
link](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-ladder/discuss/40708/Share-my-two-
end-BFS-in-C%2B%2B-80ms.) provides such a two-end search solution. I rewrite
the code below for better readability. This solution uses two pointers `phead`
and `ptail` to switch to the smaller set at each step to save time.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int ladderLength(string beginWord, string endWord, vector<string>& wordList) {
            unordered_set<string> dict(wordList.begin(), wordList.end()), head, tail, *phead, *ptail;
            if (dict.find(endWord) == dict.end()) {
                return 0;
            }
            head.insert(beginWord);
            tail.insert(endWord);
            int ladder = 2;
            while (!head.empty() && !tail.empty()) {
                if (head.size() < tail.size()) {
                    phead = &head;
                    ptail = &tail;
                } else {
                    phead = &tail;
                    ptail = &head;
                }
                unordered_set<string> temp;
                for (auto it = phead -> begin(); it != phead -> end(); it++) {    
                    string word = *it;
                    for (int i = 0; i < word.size(); i++) {
                        char t = word[i];
                        for (int j = 0; j < 26; j++) {
                            word[i] = 'a' + j;
                            if (ptail -> find(word) != ptail -> end()) {
                                return ladder;
                            }
                            if (dict.find(word) != dict.end()) {
                                temp.insert(word);
                                dict.erase(word);
                            }
                        }
                        word[i] = t;
                    }
                }
                ladder++;
                phead -> swap(temp);
            }
            return 0;
        }
    };
    


### Solution 2
Modified from **[Share my two-end BFS in C++
80ms.](https://leetcode.com/discuss/28573/share-my-two-end-bfs-in-c-80ms)**

    
    
     public class Solution {
    
    public int ladderLength(String beginWord, String endWord, Set<String> wordList) {
    	Set<String> beginSet = new HashSet<String>(), endSet = new HashSet<String>();
    
    	int len = 1;
    	int strLen = beginWord.length();
    	HashSet<String> visited = new HashSet<String>();
    	
    	beginSet.add(beginWord);
    	endSet.add(endWord);
    	while (!beginSet.isEmpty() && !endSet.isEmpty()) {
    		if (beginSet.size() > endSet.size()) {
    			Set<String> set = beginSet;
    			beginSet = endSet;
    			endSet = set;
    		}
    
    		Set<String> temp = new HashSet<String>();
    		for (String word : beginSet) {
    			char[] chs = word.toCharArray();
    
    			for (int i = 0; i < chs.length; i++) {
    				for (char c = 'a'; c <= 'z'; c++) {
    					char old = chs[i];
    					chs[i] = c;
    					String target = String.valueOf(chs);
    
    					if (endSet.contains(target)) {
    						return len + 1;
    					}
    
    					if (!visited.contains(target) && wordList.contains(target)) {
    						temp.add(target);
    						visited.add(target);
    					}
    					chs[i] = old;
    				}
    			}
    		}
    
    		beginSet = temp;
    		len++;
    	}
    	
    	return 0;
    }
    }
    


### Solution 3
    
    
        public int ladderLength(String beginWord, String endWord, Set<String> wordDict) {
            Set<String> reached = new HashSet<String>();
            reached.add(beginWord);
            wordDict.add(endWord);
            int distance = 1;
            while (!reached.contains(endWord)) {
                Set<String> toAdd = new HashSet<String>();
                for (String each : reached) {
                    for (int i = 0; i < each.length(); i++) {
                        char[] chars = each.toCharArray();
                        for (char ch = 'a'; ch <= 'z'; ch++) {
                            chars[i] = ch;
                            String word = new String(chars);
                            if (wordDict.contains(word)) {
                                toAdd.add(word);
                                wordDict.remove(word);
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                distance++;
                if (toAdd.size() == 0) return 0;
                reached = toAdd;
            }
            return distance;
        }
    

**Basically I keep two sets of words, one set reached that represents the
borders that have been reached with "distance" steps; another set wordDict
that has not been reached. In the while loop, for each word in the reached
set, I give all variations and check if it matches anything from wordDict, if
it has a match, I add that word into toAdd set, which will be my "reached" set
in the next loop, and remove the word from wordDict because I already reached
it in this step. And at the end of while loop, I check the size of toAdd,
which means that if I can't reach any new String from wordDict, I won't be
able to reach the endWord, then just return 0. Finally if the endWord is in
reached set, I return the current steps "distance".**

 **The idea is that reached always contain only the ones we just reached in
the last step, and wordDict always contain the ones that haven't been reached.
This is pretty much what Dijkstra's algorithm does, or you can see this as
some variation of BFS.**

ps: I get TLE at the first two submissions, because when I check if wordDict
has any matches with reached set, I use two for loops and determine if any
pair of words differ by one. That's a huge slow-down because it'll takes m
(size of reached) * n (size of wordDict) * l (length of words) time, while in
this solution, it takes 26 * l * m time. So when n is huge, this solution will
be (n/26) times faster.



