---
layout: post
title: 458. Poor Pigs
---
### Question
There are 1000 buckets, one and only one of them is poisonous, while the rest
are filled with water. They all look identical. If a pig drinks the poison it
will die within 15 minutes. What is the minimum amount of pigs you need to
figure out which bucket is poisonous within one hour?

Answer this question, and write an algorithm for the general case.



**General case:**

If there are `n` buckets and a pig drinking poison will die within `m`
minutes, how many pigs (`x`) you need to figure out the **poisonous**  bucket
within `p` minutes? There is exactly one bucket with poison.



**Note:**

  1. A pig can be allowed to drink simultaneously on as many buckets as one would like, and the feeding takes no time.
  2. After a pig has instantly finished drinking buckets, there has to be a **cool down time** of _m  _minutes. During this time, only observation is allowed and no feedings at all.
  3. Any given bucket can be sampled an infinite number of times (by an unlimited number of pigs).

### Solution 1
With 2 pigs, poison killing in 15 minutes, and having 60 minutes, we can find
the poison in up to 25 buckets in the following way. Arrange the buckets in a
5Ã—5 square:

    
    
     1  2  3  4  5
     6  7  8  9 10
    11 12 13 14 15
    16 17 18 19 20
    21 22 23 24 25
    

Now **use one pig to find the row** (make it drink from buckets 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
wait 15 minutes, make it drink from buckets 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, wait 15 minutes,
etc). **Use the second pig to find the column** (make it drink 1, 6, 11, 16,
21, then 2, 7, 12, 17, 22, etc).

Having 60 minutes and tests taking 15 minutes means we can run four tests. If
the row pig dies in the third test, the poison is in the third row. If the
column pig doesn't die at all, the poison is in the fifth column (this is why
we can cover five rows/columns even though we can only run four tests).

With 3 pigs, we can similarly use a 5Ã—5Ã—5 cube instead of a 5Ã—5 square and
again use one pig to determine the coordinate of one dimension (one pig drinks
layers from top to bottom, one drinks layers from left to right, one drinks
layers from front to back). So 3 pigs can solve up to 125 buckets.

In general, we can solve up to (âŒŠminutesToTest / minutesToDieâŒ‹ + 1)pigs
buckets this way, so just find the smallest sufficient number of pigs for
example like this:

    
    
    def poorPigs(self, buckets, minutesToDie, minutesToTest):
        pigs = 0
        while (minutesToTest / minutesToDie + 1) ** pigs < buckets:
            pigs += 1
        return pigs
    

Or with logarithm like I've seen other people do it. That's also where I got
the idea from (I didn't really try solving this problem on my own because the
judge's solution originally [was
wrong](https://discuss.leetcode.com/topic/66856/major-flaw-in-current-
algorithm-fixed) and I was more interested in possibly helping to make it
right quickly).


### Solution 2
To be honest, I've spent several days thinking about this question. It's not
only fun, but also confusing. it drives me up the wall, especially for its
**easy** difficulty. ðŸ˜©

### Thinking Process

 _ **1\. What if you only have one shot?**_

> Eg. **4** buckets, **15** mins to die, and **15** mins to test.

The answer is **2**. Suppose we use A and B to represent pigs, we could have

![0_1478958363340_upload-5c96756b-ca9f-41f2-b597-ff57a040ebe8](/uploads/files/1478958363472-upload-5c96756b-ca9f-41f2-b597-ff57a040ebe8.png)

Obviously we could use the binary form to represent the solution.

![0_1478958322597_upload-0812d848-8375-4422-813e-b97bdd37c653](/uploads/files/1478958322907-upload-0812d848-8375-4422-813e-b97bdd37c653.png)

 **Conclusion** : If we have `x` pigs, we could use them to represent (encode)
`2^x` buckets.

 _ **2\. What if we could have more than one attempts?**_

> Eg. **4** buckets, **15** mins to die, and **30** mins to test.

At the moment, I consider the problem as an encoding problem: _With more
attempts, how to use fewer pigs to represent all the buckets?_

I got lost at this step by keep thinking the binary way. After hanging around
the forum, I got the idea to change my views. Let's go back to the one shot
situation. What does the binary form mean? It's much easier if we regard it
as:

  * `0` means the pig does not drink and die.
  * `1` means the pig drinks in the first (and only) round.

We could generalise with:

  * `0` means the pig does not drink and die.
  * `1` means the pig drinks in the first round and die.
  * `2` means the pig drinks in the second round and die.  
...

  * `t` means the pig drinks in the t-th round and die.

 **Conclusion** : If we have `t` attempts, we could use `t+1`-based number to
represent (encode) the buckets. (That's also why the first conclusion uses the
`2`-based number)

### Example

> Eg. **8** buckets, **15** mins to die, and **40** mins to test.

We have **2** (`= (40/15).floor`) attempts, as a result we'll use **3** -based
number to encode the buckets.

How many pigs do we need? Answer is 2 (`= Math.log(8, 3).ceil`)

![0_1478960257723_upload-0da5c126-bf43-4183-935d-c2c1a5b5df15](/uploads/files/1478960260176-upload-0da5c126-bf43-4183-935d-c2c1a5b5df15.png)

For example 3-based number `02` means: the pig **A** does not drink and die,
and the pig **B** drinks in the second round and die.

### Ruby Code

    
    
     class FooTest < Minitest::Test
      def poor_pigs(buckets, minutes_to_die, minutes_to_test)
        states = minutes_to_test / minutes_to_die + 1
    
        Math.log(buckets, states).ceil
      end
    
      def test_run
        assert_equal 1, poor_pigs(2, 10, 10)
        assert_equal 2, poor_pigs(4, 10, 10)
        assert_equal 3, poor_pigs(8, 10, 10)
        assert_equal 4, poor_pigs(16, 10, 10)
    
        assert_equal 1, poor_pigs(2, 10, 20)
        assert_equal 2, poor_pigs(4, 10, 20)
        assert_equal 2, poor_pigs(8, 10, 20)
        assert_equal 3, poor_pigs(16, 10, 20)
    
        assert_equal 5, poor_pigs(1000, 15, 60)
      end
    end
    
    


### Solution 3
I think it should be at least medium since the tricky idea is very hard to be
figured out.



