---
layout: post
title: 670. Maximum Swap
---
### Question
Given a non-negative integer, you could swap two digits **at most** once to
get the maximum valued number. Return the maximum valued number you could get.

 **Example 1:**  

    
    
     **Input:** 2736
    **Output:** 7236
    **Explanation:** Swap the number 2 and the number 7.
    

**Example 2:**  

    
    
    **Input:** 9973
    **Output:** 9973
    **Explanation:** No swap.
    

**Note:**  

  1. The given number is in the range [0, 108]

### Solution 1
Use buckets to record the last position of digit 0 ~ 9 in this num.

Loop through the num array from left to right. For each position, we check
whether there exists a larger digit in this num (start from 9 to current
digit). We also need to make sure the position of this larger digit is behind
the current one. If we find it, simply swap these two digits and return the
result.

    
    
    class Solution {
        public int maximumSwap(int num) {
            char[] digits = Integer.toString(num).toCharArray();
            
            int[] buckets = new int[10];
            for (int i = 0; i < digits.length; i++) {
                buckets[digits[i] - '0'] = i;
            }
            
            for (int i = 0; i < digits.length; i++) {
                for (int k = 9; k > digits[i] - '0'; k--) {
                    if (buckets[k] > i) {
                        char tmp = digits[i];
                        digits[i] = digits[buckets[k]];
                        digits[buckets[k]] = tmp;
                        return Integer.valueOf(new String(digits));
                    }
                }
            }
            
            return num;
        }
    }
    


### Solution 2
Actually this problem can be easily solved by only one pass from backward.
During the scan, we only need to do 2 things:

  1. record the largest digit (maxdigit) and its corresponding index (maxidx);
  2. if the current digit is smaller than the largest digit, this digit and the largest digit are the best candidate for max swap so far. In this case, this digit pair is recorded (leftidx and rightidx).

    
    
        int maximumSwap(int num) {
            string numstr = std::to_string(num);
    
            int maxidx = -1; int maxdigit = -1;
            int leftidx = -1; int rightidx = -1;        
    
            for (int i = numstr.size() - 1; i >= 0; --i) {
                // current digit is the largest by far
                if (numstr[i] > maxdigit) {
                    maxdigit = numstr[i];
                    maxidx = i;
                    continue;
                }
    
                // best candidate for max swap if there is no more 
                // such situation on the left side
                if (numstr[i] < maxdigit) {
                    leftidx = i;
                    rightidx = maxidx;
                }
            }
    
            // num is already in order
            if (leftidx == -1) return num;
    
            std::swap(numstr[leftidx], numstr[rightidx]);
    
            return std::stoi(numstr);
        }
    


### Solution 3
Very similar to LeetCode 31. Next Permutation

  1. Search from the left end and find the position where the reversed list was not satisfied. **(example. in number 54367, we will find the position of 6.)** Then we cut the original digits array to two parts, the first part was reversely sorted which means no swap needed within it and the second part.

  2. Find and record the max value and max value position in the second part. **( example, digit 7 in 54367)**

  3. Swap the max value in the second part to the first number in first part that smaller than that max value. **(Example, swap 7 with 5 in 54367)**  
Time Complexity is O(n)

public int maximumSwap(int num) {  
char[] digits = (""+num).toCharArray();  
int frist_greater = 0; //find the first digit greater than previous  
while(++frist_greater<digits.length&&digits[frist_greater-1]>=digits[frist_greater]);  
if(frist_greater==digits.length) return num; //all digits are reversed sorted,
no swap needed

    
         char max = '0';               
     int max_position=frist_greater;    
     for(int i=frist_greater;i<digits.length;i++)//find max digit in remain digits
         if(max<=digits[i]){
             max = digits[i];
             max_position = i;
         }
     
     for(int i=0;i<frist_greater;i++)  //find first digit that smaller than max digit in the second part
         if(max>digits[i]){
             StringBuilder s = new StringBuilder(String.valueOf(digits));
             s.setCharAt(max_position,digits[i]);
             s.setCharAt(i,max);
             return Integer.parseInt(s.toString());  //no need to check overflow since max value is 10^8
         }
     return num;
    

}



