---
layout: post
title: 826. Soup Servings
---
### Question
  
  
There are two types of soup: type A and type B. Initially we have `N` ml of
each type of soup. There are four kinds of operations:

  1. Serve 100 ml of soup A and 0 ml of soup B
  2. Serve 75 ml of soup A and 25 ml of soup B
  3. Serve 50 ml of soup A and 50 ml of soup B
  4. Serve 25 ml of soup A and 75 ml of soup B

When we serve some soup, we give it to someone and we no longer have it.  Each
turn, we will choose from the four operations with equal probability 0.25. If
the remaining volume of soup is not enough to complete the operation, we will
serve as much as we can.  We stop once we no longer have some quantity of both
types of soup.

Note that we do not have the operation where all 100 ml's of soup B are used
first.  

Return the probability that soup A will be empty first, plus half the
probability that A and B become empty at the same time.



    
    
     **Example:**
    **Input:** N = 50
    **Output:** 0.625
    **Explanation:** 
    If we choose the first two operations, A will become empty first. For the third operation, A and B will become empty at the same time. For the fourth operation, B will become empty first. So the total probability of A becoming empty first plus half the probability that A and B become empty at the same time, is 0.25 * (1 + 1 + 0.5 + 0) = 0.625.
    
    

**Notes:**

  * `0 <= N <= 10^9`. 
  * Answers within `10^-6` of the true value will be accepted as correct.

### Solution 1
##  **First, 25ml is annoying**

The decription is very difficult to understand, and all `25ml` just make it
worse.  
When I finally figure it out, I consider only how many servings left in A and
B.  
`1 serving = 25ml`.  
Well, it works similar to your milk powder or protin powder.  
If the left part is less than `25ml`, it is still considered as one serving.

##  **Second, DP or recursion with memory**

Now it's easy to solve this problem.  
`f(a,b)` means the result probability for a ml of soup A and b ml of soup B.  
`f(a-4,b)` means that we take the first operation: Serve 100 ml of soup A and
0 ml of soup B. `f(a-3,b-1), f(a-2,b-2), f(a-1,b-3)` are other 3 operations.  
The condition `a <= 0 and b <= 0` means that we run out of soup A and B at the
same time, so we should return a probability of `0.5`, which is half of `1.0`.  
The same idea for other two conditions.  
I cached the process as we do for Fibonacci sequence. It calculate every case
for only once and it can be reused for every test case. No worries for TLE.

##  **Third, take the hint for big N**

"Note that we do not have the operation where all 100 ml's of soup B are used
first. "  
It's obvious that A is easier to be empty than B. And when `N` gets bigger, we
have less chance to run out of B first.  
So as `N` increases, our result increases and it gets closer to 100 percent =
1.

Answers within `10^-5` of the true value will be accepted as correct.  
Now it's obvious that when `N` is big enough, result is close enough to 1 and
we just need to return 1.  
When I incresed the value of `N`, I find that:  
When `N = 4800`, the `result = 0.999994994426`  
When `N = 4801`, the `result = 0.999995382315`  
So if N>= 4800, just return 1 and it will be enough.

##  **Complexity Analysis**

I have to say **this conversion process is necessary**.

The solution using hashmap may luckly get accepted.  
Thanks to leetcode infrastructure,  
every test cases will run in seperate instances.  
(this can be easily tested).

In this case it's the same for space and time using hashmap.

But are you writing codes running only once?  
How about the case running multiple test cases within the same instance?

Without this conversion,  
it needs `O(200 * 5000)` time & space if A == B,  
it needs `O(5000 * 5000)` time & space if A != B, (which sounds like 250mb)

But in our solution above, we use only `O(200 * 200)` time & space.

 **C++:**

    
    
         double memo[200][200];
        double soupServings(int N) {
            return N >= 4800 ?  1.0 : f((N + 24) / 25, (N + 24) / 25);
        }
        double f(int a, int b) {
            if (a <= 0 && b <= 0) return 0.5;
            if (a <= 0) return 1;
            if (b <= 0) return 0;
            if (memo[a][b] > 0) return memo[a][b];
            memo[a][b] = 0.25 * (f(a-4,b)+f(a-3,b-1)+f(a-2,b-2)+f(a-1,b-3));
            return memo[a][b];
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
         double[][] memo = new double[200][200];
        public double soupServings(int N) {
            return N >= 4800 ?  1.0 : f((N + 24) / 25, (N + 24) / 25);
        }
    
        public double f(int a, int b) {
            if (a <= 0 && b <= 0) return 0.5;
            if (a <= 0) return 1;
            if (b <= 0) return 0;
            if (memo[a][b] > 0) return memo[a][b];
            memo[a][b] = 0.25 * (f(a - 4, b) + f(a - 3, b - 1) + f(a - 2, b - 2) + f(a - 1, b - 3));
            return memo[a][b];
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
     class Solution(object):
        memo = {}
        def soupServings(self, N):
            if N > 4800: return 1
            def f(a, b):
                if (a, b) in self.memo: return self.memo[a, b]
                if a <= 0 and b <= 0: return 0.5
                if a <= 0: return 1
                if b <= 0: return 0
                self.memo[(a, b)] = 0.25 * (f(a - 4, b) + f(a - 3, b - 1) + f(a - 2, b - 2) + f(a - 1, b - 3))
                return self.memo[(a, b)]
            N = math.ceil(N / 25.0)
            return f(N, N)
    


### Solution 2
    
    
    class Solution {
        public double soupServings(int N) {
            if (N > 5000) {  // trick
                return 1.0;
            }
            return helper(N, N, new Double[N + 1][N + 1]);
        }
        
        public double helper(int A, int B, Double[][] memo) {
            if (A <= 0 && B <= 0) return 0.5;     // base case 1
            if (A <= 0) return 1.0;               // base case 2
            if (B <= 0) return 0.0;               // base case 3
            if (memo[A][B] != null) {
                return memo[A][B];
            }
            int[] serveA = {100, 75, 50, 25};
            int[] serveB = {0, 25, 50, 75};
            memo[A][B] = 0.0;
            for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
                memo[A][B] += helper(A - serveA[i], B - serveB[i], memo);
            }
            return memo[A][B] *= 0.25;
        }
    }
    


### Solution 3
# A Mathematical Analysis of the Soup Servings Problem

Thank you for this great article @awice about the `soup
servings`[[1](https://leetcode.com/articles/soup-servings/ "Soup Servings
Problem")] problem,  
I really like your solution. However, the following issues have been bothering  
me a lot:

  1. It seems that `leetcode` is using `4800` as the benchmark value for `N`,  
but what is the logic behind that?

  2. After running several experiments, it is not hard to make a guess that the  
limit of the possibility for `A being used up before B` is `1` as `N`  
approaches `infinity`. However, is there a mathematical proof for this?

In order to find reasonable answers to these questions, I did some research
and  
came up with this analysis report. I hope this report might be helpful to
those  
who have similar confusions as me.

Some of the ideas were inspired by the comment from @lddlinan
[[36](https://leetcode.com/problems/soup-servings/discuss/134449/How-do-you-
explain-the-magic-number-in-interview-Oh-because-I-did-experiment-before-
interview. "Magic Number")].

## 1\. The threshold of `4800` is wrong!

I commented out the line that returns `1` from your code and tested it with  
`4800`, and the result is `0.999994994425816`, so obviously `4800` is not a  
correct threshold. I then experimented your code with several values and found  
`5550` is an ideal value:

  * `N = 5550`, `result = 0.9999989925525751`
  * `N = 5551`, `result = 0.999999070257936`

I will try to explain and prove this result in the following sections.

## 2\. Preparation

First of all, let's define some basic terms and variables:

  1. An operation is defined as a pair of integers  
`(x,y)`, representing the amount served for `A`, and `B` respectively, so the  
available operations are `(4,0)`, `(3,1)`, `(2,2)`, and `(1,3)`.

  2. Assume both `A` and `B` have the same initial volume `N`.
  3. `M = N/25`.
  4. Define `max = M/2` when `M` is even, and `max = (M+1)/2`  
when `M` is odd.

  5. `SA` = the total virtual amount that has been served for  
`A`.

  6. `SB` = the total virtual amount that has been served for  
`B`.

  7. In order to normalize the calculation process,  
we don't drop the value of `SA` or `SB` to `M` when it is greater than `M`,  
so `A` is empty when `SA ≥ M`, and `B` is empty when `SB ≥ M`, that is why it
is  
called `virtual amount`

  8. An operation sequence is a list of  
operations, seperated by commas, for example `(4,0), (2,2), (1,1)`.

  9. `Z = SA - SB`.

Then we will have the following theorems.

### 2.1 Theorem 1

> Either `A` or `B`, or both must be used up after `max` serves.

**Proof of theorem 1** :

_Without loss of generality, let's assume`M` is even, so `max = M/2`._

  1. Assume both `A` and `B` have been served for `M/2` times, and the `operation sequence` is `(x1, y1), (x2, y2), ... , (xm, ym)`, where `m = M/2`, then  
we will have the following equations:

    1. `SA` `= x1 + x2 + ... + xm`
    2. `xi + yi = 4`
    3. `SB` `= y1 + y2 + ... + ym = 4m - SA = 2M - SA`
  2. If `SA > M`, then `SB < M`.
  3. If `SA = M`, then `SB = M`.
  4. If `SA < M`, then `SB > M`.

### 2.2 Theorem 2

> The value of `max` is the maximum number of serves. In other words,  
>  neither `A` nor `B` may be used up in more than `max` serves, before its  
>  opposite being used up.

**Proof of theorem 2** :

Actually, this is a deduction of `theorem 1`, because at least one type of  
soup must have been used up after the `max-th` serve, so if `A` is not used
up,  
`B` must have, and vice versa, so in either case, it is impossible to exceed
the  
`max-th` serve.

### 2.3 Theorem 3

> If `A` and `B` are used up at the same time, they are always used up in
exact  
>  `max` serves, and `SA``=``SB``=``M`.

**Proof of theorem 3** :

_Again, let's assume M is even._

  1. Assume both `A` and `B` have been used up after `m` serves, and the  
`operation sequence` is `(x1, y1), (x2, y2), ... , (xm, ym)`, then we  
will have the following statements:

    1. `SA = x1 + x2 + ... + xm ≥ M`
    2. `SB = y1 + y2 + ... + ym = 4m - SA ≥ M`
    3. `4m - M ≥ SA ≥ M`
  2. So we have `m ≥ M/2`. According to `theorem 2`, `M/2` is the maximum  
number of serves, so `m = M/2`, therefore `SA = SB = M`.

### 2.4 Theorem 4

> Either `A` or `B` can be used up in less than `max` serves, but not both  
>  of them.

**Proof of theorem 4** :

  1. Assume both `A` and `B` have been used up by `max` `(2,2)` `operations`.
  2. If we replace the last two `(2,2)` operations with a `(4,0)` operation, then  
`A` is used up in `max - 1` serves.

  3. If we replace the last three operations with `(1,3), (1,3)`, then `B` is used  
up in `max - 1` serves.

  4. So it is possible to use up either one in less than `max` serves.
  5. According to `theorem 3`, it is impossible to use up both A and B in  
less than `max` serves.

### 2.5 Theorem 5

> If `A` is used up in less than `max` serves, according to `theorem 4`, `B`
must not be empty, then obviously we will have  
>  `SA``≥``M`, `SB``< M`, and `SA - SB > 0`.  
>  From this point, if we continue to serve until the `max-th` serve has been  
>  reached, then for **each** of the `max-th` serve, we will still have `SA ≥
M`,  
>  `SB < M`, and `SA - SB > 0`.

> In other words, in this case, extending the number of serves to `max` won't  
>  change the probability.

For example, assume `M = 4`, and `A` has been used up by operation `(4,0)`, so  
`SA = 4`, `SB = 0`, `SA - SB = 4`. Now extending the number of serves to `2`,
we  
might have the following results:

  1. Operation `(4,0)` results in `SA = 8`, `SB = 0`, and `SA - SB = 8`.
  2. Operation `(3,1)` results in `SA = 7`, `SB = 1`, and `SA - SB = 6`.
  3. Operation `(2,2)` results in `SA = 6`, `SB = 2`, and `SA - SB = 4`.
  4. Operation `(1,3)` results in `SA = 5`, `SB = 3`, and `SA - SB = 2`.

**Proof of theorem 5** :

_Assume`M` is even._

  1. Assume `A` has been used up in `m` serves, and the current `operation sequence` is `(x1, y1), (x2, y2), ... , (xm, ym)`, where `m` is less  
than `M/2`, so we will have the following statements:

    1. `SA = x1 + x2 + ... + xm`, `SA ≥ M`
    2. `SB = y1 + y2 + ... + ym = 4m - SA`, `SB < M`
    3. `m < M/2`
    4. `SA - SB > 0`
  2. We want to prove that after extending the operation sequence to `M/2`  
operations, we still have `SA - SB > 0`, so if we always serve the minimal  
amount for `A`, and the maximum amount for `B`, in each new operation, and
still  
have `SA - SB > 0`, then we have proved theorem 5. So we will always use
`(1,3)`  
as the new `operation`, and we will have the following result after  
extending the sequence.

  3. `SA' = SA + M/2 - m`

  4. `SB' = SB + 3(M/2 - m) = 4m - SA + 3(M/2 - m) = m - SA + 3M/2`

  5. `SA' - SB' = SA + M/2 - m - m + SA - 3M/2 = (SA - M) + (SA - 2m) > 0`

  6. `SB' - M = m - SA + 3M/2 - M = (m - M/2) + (M - SA) < 0`

### 2.6 Theorem 6

> If `B` is used up in less than `max` serves, according to `theorem 4`,  
>  `A` must not be empty, then obviously we will have `SB``≥``M`,  
>  `SA``< M`, and `SB - SA > 0`.  
>  From this point, if we continue to serve until the `max-th` serve has been  
>  reached, then the new `max-th` serves will have the following states.

> State 1: if `SB > M`, then for each of the new `max-th` serves, we will have  
>  `SB > M`, `SA < M`, and `SB - SA > 0` ( _`B` is used up, and `A` is not  
>  empty_. )

> State 2: if `SB = M`, and **at least oneoperation is NOT `(4,0)`** , then  
>  we will have `SB > M`, `SA < M`, `SB - SA > 0`( _`B` is used up, and `A` is  
>  not empty_. )

> State 3: if `SB = M`, and **ONLY operation`(4,0)` has  
>  been used** to extend the operation sequence, then we will have `SB = SA =
M` ( in this very special case, `A` and  
>  `B` will both be used up after the `max-th` serve. )

**Obviously, there will be at most ONE(1) serve ofstate 3, which is the  
worst case, so when M is big enough, the impact on the probability can be  
ignored**

**Proof of theorem 6** :

_Assume`M` is even._

  1. Assume `B` has been used up in `m` serves, and the current operation sequence  
is `(x1, y1), (x2, y2), ... , (xm, ym)`, where `m` is less than `M/2`, so we  
will have the following statements:

    1. `SA = x1 + x2 + ... + xm = 4m - SB`, `SA < M`
    2. `SB = y1 + y2 + ... + ym`, `SB ≥ M`
    3. `m < M/2`
    4. `SB - SA > 0`
  2. If `SB > M` and only `(4,0)` is used to extend the operation sequence, then  
we have the following statements:

    1. `SA' = SA + 4(M/2 - m) = 4m - SB + 4(M/2 - m) = 2M - SB`
    2. `SB' = SB`
    3. `SB' - SA' = 2(SB - M) > 0`
    4. `SA' - M = M - SB < 0`
  3. If `SB = M`, we have the following statements: 
    1. If at least one of the operation is not `(4,0)`, we have the following  
statements:

      1. `SA' ≤ (4m - M) + 4(M/2 - m) - 1 = M - 1`
      2. `SB' ≥ M + 1`
      3. `SB' - SA' ≥ 2 > 0`
      4. `SA' - M ≤ -1 < 0`
    2. If only `(4,0)` is used, we have the following statements: 
      1. `SA' = 2M - SB = M`
      2. `SB' = M`
      3. `SA' = SB' = M`

## 3\. Problem normalization for big `M`

### 3.1 The Q-tree

The `soup servings` problem can be presented as a
`Q-tree`[[7](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadtree "Q-tree")], which has
exact  
4 children for each parent node. The value of each node is a pair of integers  
`(a,b)` that represent current remaining volume of `A` and `B` respectively.
So  
we have the following equations:

  1. `SA`=`M``- a`.
  2. `SB``= M - b`.
  3. `SA - SB = b - a`.

According to theorems 1, 2, and 3, the depth of this tree is  
`max`, but according to theorem 4, there might be some leaf nodes  
reside between level `0` and level `max` in the tree, so it is impossible to  
calculate the probability in a generalized way. Fortunately, according to  
theorems 5, and 6, when `M` is big enough, we can always extend the  
intermediate nodes to the `max-th` level to make a complete tree without  
affecting the correctness of the probability.

In a complete Q-tree, all leaf nodes reside at the `max-th` level, and there
are  
exact `4ᵐᵃˣ` leaf nodes. For each leaf node, it may only be in one of the  
following three states:

  1. `SA ≥ M`, and `SB < M`: `A` is empty, and `B` is not empty.
  2. `SA = M`, and `SB = M`: 
    1. `A` and `B` are used up at the same time; or
    2. `B` has been used up before `max-th` serve, and `A` is used up by `(4,0)`  
`operations` (`state 3` in `theorem 6`).

  3. `SB > M`, and `SA < M`: `B` is empty, and `A` is not empty.

According to theorems 1 and 2, `A` and `B` **CAN NOT BOTH BE NOT  
EMPTY** at level `max`

So theoretically, when `M` is big enough, the probability could be calculated
as  
follows:

  1. `P(A) = count(SA ≥ M and SB < M) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  2. `P(AB) = count(SA = M and SB = M) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  3. `P(B) = count(SA < M and SB > M ) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  4. `Result = P(A) + 0.5P(AB) = 1 - P(B) - 0.5P(AB)`

**NOTE: when`M` is big enough, the impact of `state 3` in `theorem 6` can be
ignored**

Of course, we are not going to resolve the `soup servings` problem in this
way,  
however, the Q-tree, especially a complete Q-tree, is a good tool for
analyzing  
this problem.

### 3.2 The normal distribution

According to the analysis above, when `M` is big enough, the probability  
could be calculated as follows:

  1. `P(A) = count(``SA``≥``M``and``SB``< M) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  2. `P(AB) = count(SA = M and SB = M) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  3. `P(B) = count(SA < M and SB > M ) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  4. `Result = P(A) + 0.5P(AB) = 1 - P(B) - 0.5P(AB)`

Consider the relationships between `SA` and `SB`, the probability could also
be  
calculated in another way:

  1. `P(A) = count(SA - SB > 0) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  2. `P(AB) = count(SA - SB = 0) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  3. `P(B) = count(SA - SB < 0) / 4ᵐᵃˣ`
  4. `Result = P(A) + 0.5P(AB) = 1 - P(B) - 0.5P(AB)`

Now define `m =``max`, we then have the following statements:

  1. `SA = x1 + x2 + ... + xm`
  2. `SB = y1 + y2 + ... + ym`
  3. `SA - SB = (x1 - y1) + (x2 - y2) + ... + (xm - ym)`

If we define `zi = xi - yi`, we will have `Z``= SA - SB = z1 + z2 + ... + zm`

Define a random variable `z = x - y`, because `z ∈ {4, 2, 0, -2}` and each one  
of the four operations is selected with equal probability, `{z1, z2, ..., zm}`
is actually

> a sequence of independent and identically distributted random variables
drawn from a distribution of expected value given by `µ = 1` and finite
variance given by `σ² = 5`.

According to the `central limit
theorem`[[4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_limit_theorem "Central
Limit Theorem")], the normalized average value `V = (z1 + z2 + ... + zm) / m`
tends toward a `normal distribution`[[2](http://statistics.wikidot.com/ch7
"Normal Distribution")] `V ~ N(1, 5/m)`:

  1. The limit of `(V1 + V2 + ... + Vt) / t` is 1 when `t` approaches `infinity`.
  2. The limit of `[(V1 - 1)² + (V2 - 1)² + ... + (Vt - 1)²] / t` is `5/m`, when  
`t` approaches `infinity`.

Because `Z = mV = z1 + z2 + ... + zm`, so `Z ~ N(m, 5m)`:

  1. The limit of `(Z1 + Z2 + ... + Zt)/t = m(V1 + V2 + ... Vt)/t` is `m`, when `t`  
approaches `infinity`.

  2. The limit of `[(Z1 - m)² + (Z2 - m)² + ... + (Zt - m)²]/t = m²[(V1 - 1)² + (V2 - 1)² + ... + (Vt - 1)²]/t` is `5m`, when `t` approaches `infinity`.

Then the probability could be calculated as follows:

  1. `P(A) = P(Z > 0)`
  2. `P(AB) = P(Z = 0) = 0`
  3. `P(B) = P(Z < 0)`
  4. `Result = P(A) = 1 - P(B)`

### 3.3 The standard normal distribution

`Z` does not conform to a `standard normal
distribution`[[3](http://statistics.wikidot.com/ch7 "Standard Normal
Distribution")], so we  
define `W = Z - m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵`, which tends toward a `standard normal
distribution` `W ~ N(0, 1)`, and we will have the following statements:

  1. `P(Z > x) = P(W > x - m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵)`
  2. `P(Z = x) = P(W = x - m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵)`
  3. `P(Z < x) = P(W < x - m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵)`

## 4\. Proof of the problem

We are now ready to prove the following statements:

### 4.1 Statement 1

> When `M` is big enough, the probability of `A being used up before B`  
>  approaches `1`. In other words, the probability of `B being used up before
A` approaches `0`.

**Proof of statement 1** :

Because `Z``~ N(m, 5m)`, function `f(m) = m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵ = (m/5)⁰⋅⁵` denotes  
how many `deviations` can be covered by range `[0, m]` or `[m, 2m]`.
Investigate  
the deriative of `f(m)`, we have `f'(m) = 0.5(5m)⁻⁰⋅⁵ > 0`, so `f(m)` is a  
monotone increasing function, and the number of `deviations` covered by `[0,
m]`  
or `[m, 2m]` increases as the growth of `m`.

According to `Chebyshev's
Theorme`[[5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chebyshev%27s_inequality
"Chebyshev's Inequality")], the more `deviations` covered by `[0, m]` and `[m,
2m]`, the greater `P(A ∈ [0, 2m])` will be, so when `m` is big  
enough, `P(Z > 0)` approaches `1`, and `P(Z < 0) = 1 - P(Z > 0)` approaches
`0`.

### 4.2 Statement 2

> The difference between the probability of `A being used up before B` and `1`  
>  is less than `0.000001` when `M` is greater than `5650`.

**Proof of statement 2** :

As per the analysis so far, the difference between the probability of `A being
used up before B` and `1` is `1 - P(Z > 0) = P(Z < 0)`, so the problem becomes  
"find the value of `m`, where `P(Z < 0) = 0.000001`."

Because `P(Z < 0) = P(Z > 2m)`, so the problem is equivalent to "finding the  
value of `m`, where `P(Z > 2m) = 0.000001`."

According to `section 3.3`, `P(Z > 2m) = P(W > m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵) = 0.000001`,  
by looking up the `standard normal distribution
table`[[6](https://keisan.casio.com/exec/system/1180573188 "Standard Normal
Distribution Table")], we have `m / (5m)⁰⋅⁵ = 4.75343`, therefore `m =
5*4.75343² = 113`.

According to the analysis of `section 3.1`, `m = M/2` when `M` is even, or  
`m = (M+1)/2` when `M` is odd, so `M = max(2m, 2m - 1) = 226`.

So finally, we have `N``= M * 25 = 5650`, which is greater than and very  
close to `5550`, which makes it an ideal threshold, and the `100`  
difference between `5650` and `5550` might be caused by `state 3` in  
`theorem 6`.

## References

A | B  
---|---  
[1] [Soup Servings Problem](https://leetcode.com/articles/soup-servings/ "Soup
Servings Problem") | [2] [Normal
Distribution](http://statistics.wikidot.com/ch7 "Normal Distribution")  
[3] [Standard Normal Distribution](http://statistics.wikidot.com/ch7 "Standard
Normal Distribution") | [4] [Central Limit
Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_limit_theorem "Central Limit
Theorem")  
[5] [Chebyshev's
Inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chebyshev%27s_inequality
"Chebyshev's Inequality") | [6] [Standard Normal Distribution
Table](https://keisan.casio.com/exec/system/1180573188 "Standard Normal
Distribution Table")  
[7] [Q-tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadtree "Q-tree") | [36] [Magic
Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/soup-servings/discuss/134449/How-do-you-
explain-the-magic-number-in-interview-Oh-because-I-did-experiment-before-
interview. "Magic Number")  
  
## Terms

A | B | C | D | E  
---|---|---|---|---  
`N` | `M` | `SA` | `SB` | `Z`  
`max` | `Operation` | `Operation Sequence` | `Virtual Amount` |



