---
layout: post
title: 164. Maximum Gap
---
### Question
Given an unsorted array, find the maximum difference between the successive
elements in its sorted form.

Return 0 if the array contains less than 2 elements.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** [3,6,9,1]
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation:** The sorted form of the array is [1,3,6,9], either
                  (3,6) or (6,9) has the maximum difference 3.

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** [10]
    **Output:** 0
    **Explanation:** The array contains less than 2 elements, therefore return 0.

 **Note:**

  * You may assume all elements in the array are non-negative integers and fit in the 32-bit signed integer range.
  * Try to solve it in linear time/space.

### Solution 1
Suppose there are N elements in the array, the min value is _**min**_ and the
max value is _**max**_. Then the maximum gap will be no smaller than ceiling[(
_ **max**_ \- _**min**_ ) / (N - 1)].

Let gap = ceiling[( _ **max**_ \- _**min**_ ) / (N - 1)]. We divide all
numbers in the array into n-1 buckets, where k-th bucket contains all numbers
in [ _ **min**_ \+ (k-1)gap, _**min**_ \+ k*gap). Since there are n-2 numbers
that are not equal _**min**_ or _**max**_ and there are n-1 buckets, at least
one of the buckets are empty. We only need to store the largest number and the
smallest number in each bucket.

After we put all the numbers into the buckets. We can scan the buckets
sequentially and get the max gap.  
[my blog for this problem](http://zkfairytale.blogspot.ca/2014/12/maximum-
gap.html)

    
    
    public class Solution {
    public int maximumGap(int[] num) {
        if (num == null || num.length < 2)
            return 0;
        // get the max and min value of the array
        int min = num[0];
        int max = num[0];
        for (int i:num) {
            min = Math.min(min, i);
            max = Math.max(max, i);
        }
        // the minimum possibale gap, ceiling of the integer division
        int gap = (int)Math.ceil((double)(max - min)/(num.length - 1));
        int[] bucketsMIN = new int[num.length - 1]; // store the min value in that bucket
        int[] bucketsMAX = new int[num.length - 1]; // store the max value in that bucket
        Arrays.fill(bucketsMIN, Integer.MAX_VALUE);
        Arrays.fill(bucketsMAX, Integer.MIN_VALUE);
        // put numbers into buckets
        for (int i:num) {
            if (i == min || i == max)
                continue;
            int idx = (i - min) / gap; // index of the right position in the buckets
            bucketsMIN[idx] = Math.min(i, bucketsMIN[idx]);
            bucketsMAX[idx] = Math.max(i, bucketsMAX[idx]);
        }
        // scan the buckets for the max gap
        int maxGap = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
        int previous = min;
        for (int i = 0; i < num.length - 1; i++) {
            if (bucketsMIN[i] == Integer.MAX_VALUE && bucketsMAX[i] == Integer.MIN_VALUE)
                // empty bucket
                continue;
            // min value minus the previous value is the current gap
            maxGap = Math.max(maxGap, bucketsMIN[i] - previous);
            // update previous bucket value
            previous = bucketsMAX[i];
        }
        maxGap = Math.max(maxGap, max - previous); // updata the final max value gap
        return maxGap;
    }
    

}


### Solution 2
You can look at radix sort visualization here before reading the code:  
<https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/RadixSort.html>

    
    
    public class Solution {
    public int maximumGap(int[] nums) {
        if (nums == null || nums.length < 2) {
            return 0;
        }
        
        // m is the maximal number in nums
        int m = nums[0];
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) {
            m = Math.max(m, nums[i]);
        }
        
        int exp = 1; // 1, 10, 100, 1000 ...
        int R = 10; // 10 digits
    
        int[] aux = new int[nums.length];
        
        while (m / exp > 0) { // Go through all digits from LSB to MSB
            int[] count = new int[R];
            
            for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
                count[(nums[i] / exp) % 10]++;
            }
            
            for (int i = 1; i < count.length; i++) {
                count[i] += count[i - 1];
            }
            
            for (int i = nums.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                aux[--count[(nums[i] / exp) % 10]] = nums[i];
            }
            
            for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
                nums[i] = aux[i];
            }
            exp *= 10;
        }
        
        int max = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i < aux.length; i++) {
            max = Math.max(max, aux[i] - aux[i - 1]);
        }
         
        return max;
    }
    

}

  1. The first step is to find the maximum value in nums array, it will  
be the threshold to end while loop.

  2. Then use the radix sort algorithm to sort based on each digit from Least Significant Bit  
(LSB) to Most Significant Bit (MSB), that's exactly what's showing  
in the link.

  3. `(nums[i] / exp) % 10` is used to get the digit, for each digit, basically the digit itself serves as the index to  
access the count array. Count array stores the index to access aux  
array which stores the numbers after sorting based on the current  
digit.

  4. Finally, find the maximum gap from sorted array.

Time and space complexities are both O(n). (Actually time is O(10n) at worst
case for Integer.MAX_VALUE 2147483647)


### Solution 3
Suppose you have n pigeons with labels and you put them into m holes based on
their label with each hole of the same size. Why bother putting pigeons into
holes? Because you want to disregard the distance between pigeons **within**
each one hole.

Only when at least one hole is empty can we disregard the distance between
pigeons within each one hole and compute the maximum gap solely by the
distance between pigeons **in adjacent holes**. We make sure that at least one
hole is empty by using m=n-1 (i.e. n-2 pigeons in n-1 holes = > at least one
hole is empty).

    
    
    int maximumGap(vector<int>& nums) {
            const int n = nums.size();
            if(n<=1) return 0;
            int maxE = *max_element(nums.begin(),nums.end());
            int minE = *min_element(nums.begin(),nums.end());
            double len = double(maxE-minE)/double(n-1);
            vector<int> maxA(n,INT_MIN);
            vector<int> minA(n,INT_MAX);
            for(int i=0; i<n; i++) {
                int index = (nums[i]-minE)/len;
                maxA[index] = max(maxA[index],nums[i]);
                minA[index] = min(minA[index],nums[i]);
            }
            int gap = 0, prev = maxA[0];
            for(int i=1; i<n; i++) {
                if(minA[i]==INT_MAX) continue;
                gap = max(gap,minA[i]-prev);
                prev = maxA[i];
            }
            return gap;
        }



