---
layout: post
title: 456. 132 Pattern
---
### Question
Given a sequence of n integers a1, a2, ..., an, a 132 pattern is a subsequence
a **i** , a **j** , a **k** suchthat **i** < **j** < **k** and a **i** < a
**k** < a **j**. Design an algorithm that takes a list of n numbers as input
and checks whether there is a 132 pattern in the list.

 **Note:** n will be less than 15,000.

 **Example 1:**  

    
    
     **Input:** [1, 2, 3, 4]
    
    **Output:** False
    
    **Explanation:** There is no 132 pattern in the sequence.
    

**Example 2:**  

    
    
    **Input:** [3, 1, 4, 2]
    
    **Output:** True
    
    **Explanation:** There is a 132 pattern in the sequence: [1, 4, 2].
    

**Example 3:**  

    
    
    **Input:** [-1, 3, 2, 0]
    
    **Output:** True
    
    **Explanation:** There are three 132 patterns in the sequence: [-1, 3, 2], [-1, 3, 0] and [-1, 2, 0].
    

### Solution 1
QUESTION: To search for a subsequence (`s1,s2,s3`) such that `s1 < s3 < s2`.

INTUITION: Suppose we want to find a `123` sequence with `s1 < s2 < s3`, we
just need to find `s3`, followed by `s2` and `s1`. Now if we want to find a
`132` sequence with `s1 < s3 < s2`, we need to switch up the order of
searching. we want to first find `s2`, followed by `s3`, then `s1`.

DETECTION: More precisely, we keep track of highest value of `s3` for each
valid `(s2 > s3)` pair while searching for a valid `s1` candidate to the left.
Once we encounter any number on the left that is smaller than the largest `s3`
we have seen so far, we know we found a valid sequence, since `s1 < s3`
implies `s1 < s2`.

ALGORITHM: We can start from either side but I think starting from the right
allow us to finish in a single pass. The idea is to start from end and search
for valid `(s2,s3)` pairs, we just need to remember the largest valid `s3`
value, using a `stack` will be effective for this purpose. A number becomes a
candidate for `s3` if there is any number on the left bigger than it.

CORRECTNESS: As we scan from right to left, we can easily keep track of the
largest `s3` value of all `(s2,s3)` candidates encountered so far. Hence, each
time we compare `nums[i]` with the largest candidate for `s3` within the
interval `nums[i+1]...nums[n-1]` we are effectively asking the question: **Is
there any 132 sequence with`s1 = nums[i]`?** Therefore, if the function
returns false, there must be no 132 sequence.

IMPLEMENTATION:

  1. Have a `stack`, each time we store a new number, we first `pop` out all numbers that are smaller than that number. The numbers that are `popped` out becomes candidate for `s3`.
  2. We keep track of the `maximum` of such `s3` (which is always the most recently `popped` number from the `stack`).
  3. Once we encounter any number smaller than `s3`, we know we found a valid sequence since `s1 < s3` implies `s1 < s2`.

RUNTIME: Each item is `pushed` and `popped` once at most, the time complexity
is therefore O(n).

EXAMPLE:  
`i = 6`, **nums** = [ 9, 11, 8, 9, 10, 7, `9` ], **S1 candidate** = `9`, **S3
candidate** = `None`, **Stack** = `Empty`  
`i = 5`, **nums** = [ 9, 11, 8, 9, 10, `7`, 9 ], **S1 candidate** = `7`, **S3
candidate** = `None`, **Stack** = `[9]`  
`i = 4`, **nums** = [ 9, 11, 8, 9, `10`, 7, 9 ], **S1 candidate** = `10`, **S3
candidate** = `None`, **Stack** = `[9,7]`  
`i = 3`, **nums** = [ 9, 11, 8, `9`, 10, 7, 9 ], **S1 candidate** = `9`, **S3
candidate** = `9`, **Stack** = `[10]`  
`i = 2`, **nums** = [ 9, 11, `8`, 9, 10, 7, 9 ], **S1 candidate** = `8`, **S3
candidate** = `9`, **Stack** = `[10,9]` **We have`8<9`, sequence `(8,10,9)`
found!**

EDIT: Thanks @Pumpkin78 and @dalwise for pointing out that the maximum
candidate for s3 is always the recently popped number from the stack, because
if we encounter any entry smaller than the current candidate, the function
would already have returned.  
EDIT 2: Rephrased explanations and added a sketch of the correctness proof.

    
    
        bool find132pattern(vector<int>& nums) {
            int s3 = INT_MIN;
            stack<int> st;
            for( int i = nums.size()-1; i >= 0; i -- ){
                if( nums[i] < s3 ) return true;
                else while( !st.empty() && nums[i] > st.top() ){ 
                  s3 = st.top(); st.pop(); 
                }
                st.push(nums[i]);
            }
            return false;
        }
    


### Solution 2
This is a summary of the four solutions for this problem. It starts with the
`O(n^3)` naive solution, then transition to the `O(n^2)` sub-optimal solution
and finally to the two optimized `O(n)` solutions (one is two-pass while the
other is one-pass).

* * *

 **`I. Naive O(n^3) solution`**

The naive `O(n^3)` solution is a no-brainer --- simply check every `(i, j, k)`
combination to see if there is any `132` pattern.

    
    
    public boolean find132pattern(int[] nums) {
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            for (int j = i + 1; j < nums.length; j++) {
                for (int k = j + 1; k < nums.length; k++) {
                    if (nums[i] < nums[k] && nums[k] < nums[j]) return true;
                }
            }
        }
        return false;
    }
    

And of course it will get rejected due to TLE. So let's see how we can do
better.

* * *

**`II. Improved O(n^2) solution`**

To reduce the time complexity down to `O(n^2)`, we need to do some
observations. In the naive solution above, let's assume we have index `j`
fixed, what should index `i` be so that it is most probable we will have a
`132` pattern? Or in other words, what should `i` be so that we will be
certain there is no such `132` pattern for combination `(*, j, *)` whenever
there is no `132` pattern for combination of `(i, j, *)`? (Here `*` means any
index before or after index `j`.)

The answer lies in the fact that once the first two numbers `nums[i]` and
`nums[j]` are fixed, we are up to find the third number `nums[k]` which will
be within the range `(nums[i], nums[j])` (the two boundaries are exclusive).
Intuitively the larger the range is, the more likely there will be a number
"falling into" it. Therefore we need to choose index `i` which will maximize
the range `(nums[i], nums[j])`. Since the upper bound `nums[j]` is fixed, this
is equivalent to minimizing the lower bound `nums[i]`. Thus it is clear `i`
should be the index of the minimum element of the subarray `nums[0, j)` (left
inclusive, right exclusive).

Since we are scanning index `j` from the beginning of the input array `nums`,
we can keep track of the minimum element of the subarray from index `0` up to
`j - 1` without rescanning it. Therefore the first two loops in the naive
solution can be combined into one and leads to the following `O(n^2)`
solution:

    
    
    public boolean find132pattern(int[] nums) {
        for (int j = 0, min = Integer.MAX_VALUE; j < nums.length; j++) {
             min = Math.min(nums[j], min);
             if (min == nums[j]) continue;
             
             for (int k = nums.length - 1; k > j; k--) {
                 if (min < nums[k] && nums[k] < nums[j]) return true;
             }
         }
         
         return false;
    }
    

While this solution can be accepted, it runs slow. One obvious drawback is
that in the second loop we are throwing away information about elements in the
right part of `nums` that may be "useful" for later combinations. It turns out
we can retain this "useful" information by applying the classic space-time
tradeoff, which leads to the following `O(n)` time and `O(n)` space solution.

* * *

**`III. Optimized O(n) solution`**

As I mentioned, to further reduce the time complexity, we need to record the
"useful" information about elements in the right part of the input array
`nums`. Since these elements are located at the right part of `nums`, it will
be hard to do so if we are scanning the array from the beginning. So the idea
is to scan it from the end while in the meantime keep track of the "useful"
information. But still at each index `j`, we need to know the minimum element
for subarray `nums[0, j)`. This can be done by doing a pre-scan in the forward
direction and memorize the results for each index in an auxiliary array (we
will call the array as `arr` whose element `arr[j]` will denote the minimum
element in the subarray `nums[0, j)`).

Until now we are kinda vague about the exact meaning of "useful" information,
so let's try to be more specific. Assume we're currently scanning (from the
end) the element with index `j`, our task is to find two elements `nums[i]`
and `nums[k]` to determine if there exists a `132` pattern, with `i < j < k`.
The left element `nums[i]`, as it has been shown in part `II`, will be chosen
as `arr[j]`, the minimum element of subarray `nums[0, j)`. What about the
right element `nums[k]`?

The answer to that will address the meaning of "useful" information. First
note we are only interested in elements that are greater than `arr[j]`, so it
is sensible to maintain only those elements. Second, among all these qualified
elements, which one will be the most probable to fall into the range
`(nums[i], nums[j])`? I would say it is the smallest one (i.e., if the
smallest one is out of the range, all others will also be out of range). So to
sum up, the "useful" information for current index `j` will be a collection of
scanned elements that are greater than `arr[j]`, and `nums[k]` will be chosen
as the smallest one if the collection is not empty.

From the analyses above, it looks like we have to do some sorting stuff for
the retained elements (or at least find a way to figure out its smallest
element). Well, it turns out these elements will be sorted automatically due
to the fact that `arr[j'] >= arr[j]` as long as `j' < j`. Here is how it goes,
which is a proof by induction.

At the beginning we have an empty collection and of course it is sorted. Now
suppose we are at index `j` and the corresponding collection is still sorted,
let's see if it remains so at index `j - 1`. First we will check if `nums[j]`
is greater than `arr[j]`. If not, we simply continue to `j - 1`. Since the
collection is intact so it will be sorted at `j - 1`. Otherwise, we need to
remove elements in the collection that are no greater than `arr[j]` (this is
necessary because some smaller elements may be left over in the collection
from previous steps). After removal, we then compare the first element in the
collection with `nums[j]` to see if a `132` pattern has been found, provided
the collection is not empty. If so, return true. Otherwise one of the
following must be true: the collection is empty or `nums[j]` is no greater
than the first element in the collection. In either case the collection is
sorted. Now if we have `arr[j - 1] < nums[j]`, we need to add `nums[j]` to the
collection since it is a qualified number for `arr[j - 1]`. Again in either
case the collection will remain sorted after addition (if it is empty, after
addition there is only one element; otherwise since the added element is no
greater than the first element in the collection before addition, it will
become the new first element after addition and the collection stays sorted).

Here is the program with `O(n)` time and space complexity. There is one minor
optimization based on the observation that the total number of elements in the
collection will never exceed the total number of elements scanned so far.
Therefore the right part of the `arr` array can be used to serve as the
collection. For time complexity, each element in the input array `nums` will
be pushed into and popped out from the collection (or stack to be exact) at
most once, the time complexity will be `O(n)` despite of the nested loop.

    
    
    public boolean find132pattern(int[] nums) {
        int[] arr = Arrays.copyOf(nums, nums.length);
    
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) {
            arr[i] = Math.min(nums[i - 1], arr[i - 1]);
        }
        
        for (int j = nums.length - 1, top = nums.length; j >= 0; j--) {
            if (nums[j] <= arr[j]) continue;
            while (top < nums.length && arr[top] <= arr[j]) top++;
            if (top < nums.length && nums[j] > arr[top]) return true;
            arr[--top] = nums[j];
        }
            
        return false;
    }
    

* * *

**`IV -- One-pass O(n) solution`**

It turned out that we don't need the `arr` array in part **`III`** , thus can
get rid of the pre-scan. The idea is to do backward traversal of the input
array and keep track of the maximum value (denoted as `third`) of all possible
third numbers obtained so far (an element can be a candidate for the third
number if and only if there is another element coming before and greater than
it). This is because for two candidate third numbers `a` and `b`, if `a <= b`
and there is no `132` pattern for `b`, then there must be no `132` pattern for
`a` either. The idea is elaborated as follows.

For the current element being examined, we first check if it can be the first
number by comparing it with `third`. If this is the case, a `132` pattern has
been found. Otherwise, it will be treated as the second number to qualify
scanned elements so far as candidate third numbers (note we are doing backward
scan so the current element will always come before scanned elements). Of
course we cannot do this for all scanned elements, as it will lead to an
`O(n^2)` solution. Fortunately it suffices only to process scanned elements
that are greater than `third`. This is because after an element is qualified
to be the third number, it will only be used to update `third`. For those
elements smaller than `third`, even if they are qualified to be the third
number, they won't make `third` any larger and therefore can be ignored.

So we need to maintain a collection (stack, to be exact) for scanned elements
that are greater than `third`. After the current element is done, it will be
added to this collection for future processing. It can be shown by
mathematical induction that elements in the collection will be sorted
automatically, similar to that in part **`III`**. At the beginning the
collection is empty so the base case is true. Assume the collection is sorted
immediately before processing the current element, which is presumed to be `>=
third` (otherwise a `132` pattern is found). We will scan the collection and
pop out all elements smaller than the current element to find all qualified
third numbers and update `third` accordingly. At the end, all remaining
elements in the collection are no less than the current element, therefore
adding the current element to the collection won't break the sorted property.
So our induction assumption is also true.

Here is the one-pass `O(n)` solution. We can also optimize the space cost to
`O(1)` if the input array can act as the collection by taking advantage of the
fact that size of the collection will never exceed the number of elements
scanned so far.

    
    
    public boolean find132pattern(int[] nums) {
        int n = nums.length, top = n, third = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
    
        for (int i = n - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
            if (nums[i] < third) return true;
            while (top < n && nums[i] > nums[top]) third = nums[top++];
            nums[--top] = nums[i];
        }
        
        return false;
    }
    


### Solution 3
The idea is that we can use a stack to keep track of previous min-max
intervals.

Here is the principle to maintain the stack:

For each number `num` in the array

If stack is empty:

  * push a new Pair of `num` into stack

If stack is not empty:

  * if `num` < `stack.peek().min`, push a new Pair of `num` into stack

  * if `num` >= `stack.peek().min`, we first pop() out the peek element, denoted as `last`

    * if `num` < `last.max`, we are done, return `true`;

    * if `num` >= `last.max`, we merge `num` into `last`, which means `last.max` = `num`.  
Once we update `last`, if stack is empty, we just push back `last`.  
 **However, the crucial part is:**  
If stack is not empty, the updated `last` might:

      * Entirely covered stack.peek(), i.e. `last.min` < `stack.peek().min` (which is always true) && `last.max` >= `stack.peek().max`, in which case we keep popping out stack.peek().
      * Form a 1-3-2 pattern, we are done ,return `true`

So at any time in the stack, **non-overlapping** `Pairs` are formed in
descending order by their min value, which means the min value of peek element
in the stack is always the min value globally.

    
    
        class Pair{
            int min, max;
            public Pair(int min, int max){
                this.min = min;
                this.max = max;
            }
        }
        public boolean find132pattern(int[] nums) {
            Stack<Pair> stack = new Stack();
            for(int n: nums){
                if(stack.isEmpty() || n <stack.peek().min ) stack.push(new Pair(n,n));
                else if(n > stack.peek().min){ 
                    Pair last = stack.pop();
                    if(n < last.max) return true;
                    else {
                        last.max = n;
                        while(!stack.isEmpty() && n >= stack.peek().max) stack.pop();
                        // At this time, n < stack.peek().max (if stack not empty)
                        if(!stack.isEmpty() && stack.peek().min < n) return true;
                        stack.push(last);
                    }
                    
                }
            }
            return false;
        }
    



