---
layout: post
title: 1017. Odd Even Jump
---
### Question
You are given an integer array `A`.  From some starting index, you can make a
series of jumps.  The (1st, 3rd, 5th, ...) jumps in the series are called _odd
numbered jumps_ , and the (2nd, 4th, 6th, ...) jumps in the series are called
_even numbered jumps_.

You may from index `i` jump forward to index `j` (with `i < j`) in the
following way:

  * During odd numbered jumps (ie. jumps 1, 3, 5, ...), you jump to the index j such that `A[i] <= A[j]` and `A[j]` is the smallest possible value.  If there are multiple such indexes `j`, you can only jump to the **smallest** such index ` j`.
  * During even numbered jumps (ie. jumps 2, 4, 6, ...), you jump to the index j such that `A[i] >= A[j]` and `A[j]` is the largest possible value.  If there are multiple such indexes `j`, you can only jump to the **smallest** such index ` j`.
  * (It may be the case that for some index `i,` there are no legal jumps.)

A starting index is _good_ if, starting from that index, you can reach the end
of the array (index `A.length - 1`) by jumping some number of times (possibly
0 or more than once.)

Return the number of good starting indexes.



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** [10,13,12,14,15]
    **Output:** 2
    **Explanation:**
    From starting index i = 0, we can jump to i = 2 (since A[2] is the smallest among A[1], A[2], A[3], A[4] that is greater or equal to A[0]), then we can't jump any more.
    From starting index i = 1 and i = 2, we can jump to i = 3, then we can't jump any more.
    From starting index i = 3, we can jump to i = 4, so we've reached the end.
    From starting index i = 4, we've reached the end already.
    In total, there are 2 different starting indexes (i = 3, i = 4) where we can reach the end with some number of jumps.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** [2,3,1,1,4]
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation:**
    From starting index i = 0, we make jumps to i = 1, i = 2, i = 3:
    
    During our 1st jump (odd numbered), we first jump to i = 1 because A[1] is the smallest value in (A[1], A[2], A[3], A[4]) that is greater than or equal to A[0].
    
    During our 2nd jump (even numbered), we jump from i = 1 to i = 2 because A[2] is the largest value in (A[2], A[3], A[4]) that is less than or equal to A[1].  A[3] is also the largest value, but 2 is a smaller index, so we can only jump to i = 2 and not i = 3.
    
    During our 3rd jump (odd numbered), we jump from i = 2 to i = 3 because A[3] is the smallest value in (A[3], A[4]) that is greater than or equal to A[2].
    
    We can't jump from i = 3 to i = 4, so the starting index i = 0 is not good.
    
    In a similar manner, we can deduce that:
    From starting index i = 1, we jump to i = 4, so we reach the end.
    From starting index i = 2, we jump to i = 3, and then we can't jump anymore.
    From starting index i = 3, we jump to i = 4, so we reach the end.
    From starting index i = 4, we are already at the end.
    In total, there are 3 different starting indexes (i = 1, i = 3, i = 4) where we can reach the end with some number of jumps.
    

**Example 3:**

    
    
    **Input:** [5,1,3,4,2]
    **Output:** 3
    **Explanation:**
    We can reach the end from starting indexes 1, 2, and 4.
    



 **Note:**

  1. `1 <= A.length <= 20000`
  2. `0 <= A[i] < 100000`

### Solution 1
We need to jump higher and lower alternately to the end.

Take [5,1,3,4,2] as example.

If we start at 2,  
we can jump either higher first or lower first to the end,  
because we are already at the end.  
higher(2) = true  
lower(2) = true

If we start at 4,  
we can't jump higher, higher(4) = false  
we can jump lower to 2, lower(4) = higher(2) = true

If we start at 3,  
we can jump higher to 4, higher(3) = lower(4) = true  
we can jump lower to 2, lower(3) = higher(2) = true

If we start at 1,  
we can jump higher to 2, higher(1) = lower(2) = true  
we can't jump lower, lower(1) = false

If we start at 5,  
we can't jump higher, higher(5) = false  
we can jump lower to 4, lower(5) = higher(4) = false

 **Java:**  
Suggested by @zhangchunlei0813, I use ceilingEntry and floorEntry instead of
ceilingKey and floorKey, to avoid O(logN) query.

    
    
        public int oddEvenJumps(int[] A) {
            int n  = A.length, res = 1;
            boolean[] higher = new boolean[n], lower = new boolean[n];
            higher[n - 1] = lower[n - 1] = true;
            TreeMap<Integer, Integer> map = new TreeMap<>();
            map.put(A[n - 1], n - 1);
            for (int i = n - 2; i >= 0; --i) {
                Map.Entry hi = map.ceilingEntry(A[i]), lo = map.floorEntry(A[i]);
                if (hi != null) higher[i] = lower[(int)hi.getValue()];
                if (lo != null) lower[i] = higher[(int)lo.getValue()];
                if (higher[i]) res++;
                map.put(A[i], i);
            }
            return res;
        }
    

**C++:**

    
    
         int oddEvenJumps(vector<int>& A) {
            int n  = A.size(), res = 1;
            vector<int> higher(n), lower(n);
            higher[n - 1] = lower[n - 1] = 1;
            map<int, int> map;
            map[A[n - 1]] = n - 1;
            for (int i = n - 2; i >= 0; --i) {
                auto hi = map.lower_bound(A[i]), lo = map.upper_bound(A[i]);
                if (hi != map.end()) higher[i] = lower[hi->second];
                if (lo != map.begin()) lower[i] = higher[(--lo)->second];
                if (higher[i]) res++;
                map[A[i]] = i;
            }
            return res;
        }
    

**Python**  
In Python, I used stack to find next_higher and next_lower

    
    
        def oddEvenJumps(self, A):
             n = len(A)
            next_higher, next_lower = [0] * n, [0] * n
    
            stack = []
            for a, i in sorted([a, i] for i, a in enumerate(A)):
                while stack and stack[-1] < i:
                    next_higher[stack.pop()] = i
                stack.append(i)
    
            stack = []
            for a, i in sorted([-a, i] for i, a in enumerate(A)):
                while stack and stack[-1] < i:
                    next_lower[stack.pop()] = i
                stack.append(i)
    
            higher, lower = [0] * n, [0] * n
            higher[-1] = lower[-1] = 1
            for i in range(n - 1)[::-1]:
                higher[i] = lower[next_higher[i]]
                lower[i] = higher[next_lower[i]]
            return sum(higher)
    


### Solution 2
First let's create a boolean DP array.  
dp[i][0] stands for you can arrive index `n - 1` starting from index i at an
`odd` step.  
dp[i][1] stands for you can arrive index `n - 1` starting from index i at an
`even` step.  
`Initialization:`  
Index n - 1 is always a good start point, regardless it's odd or even step
right now. Thus dp[n - 1][0] = dp[n - 1][1] = `true`.  
`DP formula:`  
dp[i][0] = dp[index_next_greater_number][1] - because next is even step  
dp[i][1] = dp[index_next_smaller_number][0] - because next is odd step  
`Result:`  
Since first step is odd step, then result is count of dp[i][0] with value
`true`.

To quickly find the next greater or smaller number and its index: traverse the
array reversely and store data into a `TreeMap` using the number as `Key` and
its index as `Value`.

Time complexity O(nlgn), Space complexity O(n). n is the length of the array.

    
    
    class Solution {
        public int oddEvenJumps(int[] A) {
            int n = A.length;
            TreeMap<Integer, Integer> map = new TreeMap<>();
            boolean[][] dp = new boolean[n][2];
            dp[n - 1][0] = true;
            dp[n - 1][1] = true;
            map.put(A[n - 1], n - 1);
            int res = 1;
    
            for (int i = n - 2; i >= 0; i--) {
                // Odd step
                Integer nextGreater = map.ceilingKey(A[i]);
                if (nextGreater != null) {
                    dp[i][0] = dp[map.get(nextGreater)][1];
                }
                // Even step
                Integer nextSmaller = map.floorKey(A[i]);
                if (nextSmaller != null) {
                    dp[i][1] = dp[map.get(nextSmaller)][0];
                }
                map.put(A[i], i);
    
                res += dp[i][0] ? 1 : 0;
            }
    
            return res;
        }
    }
    


### Solution 3
    
    
    class Solution:
        def oddEvenJumps(self, A: 'List[int]') -> 'int':
    
            # sort indexes of A by values in A
            sorted_indexes = sorted(range(len(A)), key = lambda i: A[i])
            
            # generate list of indexes we can jump to next on odd jumps
            oddnext = self.makeStack(sorted_indexes)
    
            # sort indexes of A by reverse order of their value in A
            sorted_indexes.sort(key = lambda i: A[i], reverse = True)
    
            # generate list of indexes we can jump to next on even jumps
            evennext = self.makeStack(sorted_indexes)
    
            # initialize odd and even lists that will contain
            # the information of if the end can be reached
    		# from the respective index
            odd = [False] * len(A)
            even = [False] * len(A)
    
            # the last index is always counted
            odd[len(A)-1] = even[len(A)-1] = True
    
            # iterate through A backwards, starting at next to last element
            for i in range(len(A)-2, -1, -1):
    
                # if an odd jump is available from current index,
                # check if an even jump landed on the index of the available
                # odd jump and set current index in odd to True if it did
                if oddnext[i] is not None:
                    odd[i] = even[oddnext[i]]
    
                # if an even jump is available from current index,
                # check if an odd jump landed on the index of the available
                # even jump and set current index in even to True if it did
                if evennext[i] is not None:
                    even[i] = odd[evennext[i]]
    
            # return the number of spots marked True in odd
            # we always start with an odd jump, so odd will
            # contain the number of valid jumps to reach the end
            return sum(odd)
        
        # makes monotonic stack
        def makeStack(self, sorted_indexes):
            result = [None] * len(sorted_indexes)
            stack = []
            for i in sorted_indexes:
                while stack and i > stack[-1]:
                    result[stack.pop()] = i
                stack.append(i)
            # delete stack as a memory optimization
            del stack
            return result
    



