---
layout: post
title: 61. Rotate List
---
### Question
Given a linked list, rotate the list to the right by _k_ places, where _k_ is
non-negative.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** 1- >2->3->4->5->NULL, k = 2
    **Output:** 4- >5->1->2->3->NULL
    **Explanation:**
    rotate 1 steps to the right: 5- >1->2->3->4->NULL
    rotate 2 steps to the right: 4->5->1->2->3->NULL
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** 0- >1->2->NULL, k = 4
    **Output:** 2->0->1->NULL
    **Explanation:**
    rotate 1 steps to the right: 2- >0->1->NULL
    rotate 2 steps to the right: 1->2->0->NULL
    rotate 3 steps to the right: 0->1->2->NULL
    rotate 4 steps to the right: 2->0->1->NULL

### Solution 1
There is no trick for this problem. Some people used slow/fast pointers to
find the tail node but I don't see the benefit (in the sense that it doesn't
reduce the pointer move op) to do so. So I just used one loop to find the
length first.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        ListNode* rotateRight(ListNode* head, int k) {
            if(!head) return head;
            
            int len=1; // number of nodes
            ListNode *newH, *tail;
            newH=tail=head;
            
            while(tail->next)  // get the number of nodes in the list
            {
                tail = tail->next;
                len++;
            }
            tail->next = head; // circle the link
    
            if(k %= len) 
            {
                for(auto i=0; i<len-k; i++) tail = tail->next; // the tail node is the (len-k)-th node (1st node is head)
            }
            newH = tail->next; 
            tail->next = NULL;
            return newH;
        }
    };


### Solution 2
Since n may be a large number compared to the length of list. So we need to
know the length of linked list.After that, move the list after the (l-n%l )th
node to the front to finish the rotation.

Ex: {1,2,3} k=2 Move the list after the 1st node to the front

Ex: {1,2,3} k=5, In this case Move the list after (3-5%3=1)st node to the
front.

So the code has three parts.

  1. Get the length

  2. Move to the (l-n%l)th node

3)Do the rotation

    
    
    public ListNode rotateRight(ListNode head, int n) {
        if (head==null||head.next==null) return head;
        ListNode dummy=new ListNode(0);
        dummy.next=head;
        ListNode fast=dummy,slow=dummy;
    
        int i;
        for (i=0;fast.next!=null;i++)//Get the total length 
        	fast=fast.next;
        
        for (int j=i-n%i;j>0;j--) //Get the i-n%i th node
        	slow=slow.next;
        
        fast.next=dummy.next; //Do the rotation
        dummy.next=slow.next;
        slow.next=null;
        
        return dummy.next;
    }


### Solution 3
My solution has O(n) time complexity and O(1) memory.  
The basic idea is to connect the list into a circle. First, count the length
of list while going through the list to find the end of it. Connect the tail
to head. The problem asked to rotate k nodes, however, now the tail is at the
end of the list and its difficult to move backward, so move _(k - len)_ nodes
along the list instead. _"k = k % len"_ saves the unnecessary moves because
rotate a list with length = _len_ by _len_ times doesn't change the list at
all.

    
    
    ListNode *rotateRight(ListNode *head,  int k) {
            if (head == NULL || head->next == NULL || k == 0) return head;
            int len = 1;
            ListNode *tail = head;
    
            /* find the end of list */
            while (tail->next != NULL) {
                tail = tail->next;
                len++;
            }
    
            /* form a circle */
            tail->next = head;
            k = k % len;
            for (int i = 0; i < len - k; i++) {
                tail = tail->next;
            }
            head = tail->next;
            tail->next = NULL;
            return head;
        }



