---
layout: post
title: 881. Loud and Rich
---
### Question
In a group of N people (labelled `0, 1, 2, ..., N-1`), each person has
different amounts of money, and different levels of quietness.

For convenience, we'll call the person with label `x`, simply "person `x`".

We'll say that `richer[i] = [x, y]` if person `x` definitely has more money
than person `y`.  Note that `richer` may only be a subset of valid
observations.

Also, we'll say `quiet[x] = q` if person x has quietness `q`.

Now, return `answer`, where `answer[x] = y` if `y` is the least quiet person
(that is, the person `y` with the smallest value of `quiet[y]`), among all
people who definitely have equal to or more money than person `x`.



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** richer = [[1,0],[2,1],[3,1],[3,7],[4,3],[5,3],[6,3]], quiet = [3,2,5,4,6,1,7,0]
    **Output:** [5,5,2,5,4,5,6,7]
    **Explanation:**
    answer[0] = 5.
    Person 5 has more money than 3, which has more money than 1, which has more money than 0.
    The only person who is quieter (has lower quiet[x]) is person 7, but
    it isn't clear if they have more money than person 0.
    
    answer[7] = 7.
    Among all people that definitely have equal to or more money than person 7
    (which could be persons 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7), the person who is the quietest (has lower quiet[x])
    is person 7.
    
    The other answers can be filled out with similar reasoning.
    

**Note:**

  1. `1 <= quiet.length = N <= 500`
  2. `0 <= quiet[i] < N`, all `quiet[i]` are different.
  3. `0 <= richer.length <= N * (N-1) / 2`
  4. `0 <= richer[i][j] < N`
  5. `richer[i][0] != richer[i][1]`
  6. `richer[i]`'s are all different.
  7. The observations in `richer` are all logically consistent.

### Solution 1
 **Explanation** :  
The description is not easy to understand.  
In fact it's a basic dfs traversal problem.  
For every people, call a sub function `dfs` to compare the `quiet` with
others, who is richer than him.  
Also we will note this answer to avoid repeated calculation.

 **Time Complexity** :  
O(richer.length),  
Sub function `dfs` traverse every people only once, and every `richer` is
traversed only one once.

 **C++:**

    
    
         unordered_map<int, vector<int>> richer2;
        vector<int> res;
        vector<int> loudAndRich(vector<vector<int>>& richer, vector<int>& quiet) {
            for (auto v : richer) richer2[v[1]].push_back(v[0]);
            res = vector<int> (quiet.size(), -1);
            for (int i = 0; i < quiet.size(); i++) dfs(i, quiet);
            return res;
        }
    
        int dfs(int i, vector<int>& quiet) {
            if (res[i] >= 0) return res[i];
            res[i] = i;
            for (int j : richer2[i]) if (quiet[res[i]] > quiet[dfs(j, quiet)]) res[i] = res[j];
            return res[i];
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
        HashMap< Integer, List<Integer>> richer2 = new HashMap<>();
        int res[];
        public int[] loudAndRich(int[][] richer, int[] quiet) {
            int n = quiet.length;
            for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) richer2.put(i, new ArrayList<Integer>());
            for (int[] v : richer) richer2.get(v[1]).add(v[0]);
            res = new int[n]; Arrays.fill(res, -1);
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) dfs(i, quiet);
            return res;
        }
    
        int dfs(int i, int[] quiet) {
            if (res[i] >= 0) return res[i];
            res[i] = i;
            for (int j : richer2.get(i)) if (quiet[res[i]] > quiet[dfs(j, quiet)]) res[i] = res[j];
            return res[i];
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
    class Solution(object):
    
        def loudAndRich(self, richer, quiet):
            m = collections.defaultdict(list)
             for i, j in richer: m[j].append(i)
            res = [-1] * len(quiet)
    
            def dfs(i):
                if res[i] >= 0: return res[i]
                res[i] = i
                for j in m[i]:
                    if quiet[res[i]] > quiet[dfs(j)]: res[i] = res[j]
                return res[i]
    
            for i in range(len(quiet)): dfs(i)
            return res
    


### Solution 2
Can someone please explain how is this possible:

"answer[7] = 7.  
There isn't anyone who definitely has more money than person 7, so the person
who definitely has  
equal to or more money than person 7 is just person 7."

Given [3, 7] entry in richer, we know for sure that atleaset 3 has more money
that 7.

Can someone please explain it.


### Solution 3
We want to find the least quiet person that's richer or equal rich to our
target. So we can convert the `richer` to a directed graph.

Each child node is the richer person in the relationship. So when we search
from our target node, all the node we visited in such directed graph will be
richer persons than our target. And we just find out the least quite one from
them.

Thus, we can use DFS here to collect all children nodes and target node itself
(since our target node might be the richest node or all of its children nodes
are quieter than itself). Then we just pick out the least quite one
(`min(candidates, key=lambda x:quiet[x]`)).

And previous searched result can be cached and reused. We can just save it in
our answer array.

    
    
    def loudAndRich(richer, quiet):
    	g, loud = collections.defaultdict(set), [-1]*len(quiet)
    	for u, v in richer: g[v].add(u)
    	def dfs(node):
    		if loud[node] < 0: loud[node] = min([dfs(nei) for nei in g[node]]+[node], key=lambda x:quiet[x])
    		return loud[node]
    	return list(map(dfs, range(len(quiet))))
    



