---
layout: post
title: 923. Super Egg Drop
---
### Question
You are given `K` eggs, and you have access to a building with `N` floors from
`1` to `N`.

Each egg is identical in function, and if an egg breaks, you cannot drop it
again.

You know that there exists a floor `F` with `0 <= F <= N` such that any egg
dropped at a floor higher than `F` will break, and any egg dropped at or below
floor `F` will not break.

Each _move_ , you may take an egg (if you have an unbroken one) and drop it
from any floor `X` (with `1 <= X <= N`).

Your goal is to know  **with certainty**  what the value of `F` is.

What is the minimum number of moves that you need to know with certainty what
`F` is, regardless of the initial value of `F`?



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** K = 1, N = 2
    **Output:** 2
    **Explanation:**
    Drop the egg from floor 1.  If it breaks, we know with certainty that F = 0.
    Otherwise, drop the egg from floor 2.  If it breaks, we know with certainty that F = 1.
    If it didn't break, then we know with certainty F = 2.
    Hence, we needed 2 moves in the worst case to know what F is with certainty.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** K = 2, N = 6
    **Output:** 3
    

**Example 3:**

    
    
    **Input:** K = 3, N = 14
    **Output:** 4
    



 **Note:**

  1. `1 <= K <= 100`
  2. `1 <= N <= 10000`

### Solution 1
Drop eggs is a very classical problem.  
Some people may come up with idea `O(KN^2)`  
where `dp[K][N] = 1 + max(dp[K - 1][i - 1],dp[K][N - i])` for i in 1...N.  
However this idea is very brute force, for the reason that you check all
possiblity.

So I consider this problem in a different way:  
`dp[M][K]`means that, given `K` eggs and `M` moves,  
what is the maximum number of floor that we can check.

The dp equation is:  
`dp[m][k] = dp[m - 1][k - 1] + dp[m - 1][k] + 1`,  
which means we take 1 move to a floor,  
if egg breaks, then we can check `dp[m - 1][k - 1]` floors.  
if egg doesn't breaks, then we can check `dp[m - 1][k - 1]` floors.

`dp[m][k]` is similar to the number of combinations and it increase
exponentially to `N`

 **Time Complexity** :  
For time, `O(NK)` decalre the space, `O(KlogN)` running,  
For space, `O(NK)`.

 **C++:**

    
    
         int superEggDrop(int K, int N) {
            vector<vector<int>> dp(N + 1, vector<int>(K + 1, 0));
            int m = 0;
            while (dp[m][K] < N) {
                m++;
                for (int k = 1; k <= K; ++k)
                    dp[m][k] = dp[m - 1][k - 1] + dp[m - 1][k] + 1;
            }
            return m;
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
         public int superEggDrop(int K, int N) {
            int[][] dp = new int[N + 1][K + 1];
            int m = 0;
            while (dp[m][K] < N) {
                ++m;
                for (int k = 1; k <= K; ++k)
                    dp[m][k] = dp[m - 1][k - 1] + dp[m - 1][k] + 1;
            }
            return m;
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
        def superEggDrop(self, K, N):
            dp = [[ 0] * (K + 1) for i in range(N + 1)]
            for m in range(1, N + 1):
                for k in range(1, K + 1):
                    dp[m][k] = dp[m - 1][k - 1] + dp[m - 1][k] + 1
                if dp[m][K] >= N: return m
    

Optimized to 1D DP

**Time Complexity** :  
C++/Java `O(KlogN)` Time, `O(K)` Space  
Python `O(min(K, logN)^2)` Time, `O(min(K, logN))` Space

**C++:**

    
    
         int superEggDrop(int K, int N) {
            vector<int> dp(K + 1, 0);
            int m;
            for (m = 0; dp[K] < N; m++)
                for (int k = K; k > 0; --k)
                    dp[k] += dp[k - 1] + 1;
            return m;
        }
    

**Java:**

    
    
         public int superEggDrop(int K, int N) {
            int dp[] = new int[K + 1], m = 0;
            for (m = 0; dp[K] < N; ++m)
                for (int k = K; k > 0; --k)
                    dp[k] += dp[k - 1] + 1;
            return m;
        }
    

**Python:**

    
    
        def superEggDrop(self, K, N):
            dp = [ 0, 0]
            m = 0
            while dp[-1] < N:
                for i in range(len(dp) - 1, 0, - 1):
                    dp[i] += dp[i - 1] + 1
                if len(dp) < K + 1:
                    dp.append(dp[-1])
                m += 1
            return m
    


### Solution 2
We can easily come up with an `O(KN^2)` DP solution, where `dp[k][n] = min(1 +
max(dp[k - 1][i - 1], dp[k][n - i])) i = 1...n`  
In this implementation, we use recursion to simulate each move.  
But it runs **TLE**.

    
    
     class Solution {
        public int superEggDrop(int K, int N) {
            int[][] memo = new int[K + 1][N + 1];
            return helper(K, N, memo);
        }
        private int helper(int K, int N, int[][] memo) {
            if (N <= 1) {
                return N;
            }
            if (K == 1) {
                return N;
            }
            if (memo[K][N] > 0) {
                return memo[K][N];
            }
            int min = N;
            for (int i = 1; i <= N; i++) {
                int left = helper(K - 1, i - 1, memo);
                int right = helper(K, N - i, memo);
                min = Math.min(min, Math.max(left, right) + 1);
            }
            memo[K][N] = min;
            return min;
        }
    }
    

Notice that for the same `K` when `N` goes up, `dp[K][N]` goes up.  
Then for `int left = helper(K - 1, i - 1, memo);` `int right = helper(K, N -
i, memo);` when `i` goes up, `left` goes up and `right` goes down.  
We can use `Binary Search` here to get the minimum `Math.max(left, right) +
1`, when `left` and `right` are as close as possible.  
We come to this `O(KNlogN)` solution:

    
    
    class Solution {
        public int superEggDrop(int K, int N) {
            int[][] memo = new int[K + 1][N + 1];
            return helper(K, N, memo);
        }
        private int helper(int K, int N, int[][] memo) {
            if (N <= 1) {
                return N;
            }
            if (K == 1) {
                return N;
            }
            if (memo[K][N] > 0) {
                return memo[K][N];
            }
            
            int low = 1, high = N, result = N;
            while (low < high) {
                int mid = low + (high - low) / 2;
                int left = helper(K - 1, mid - 1, memo);
                int right = helper(K, N - mid, memo);
                result = Math.min(result, Math.max(left, right) + 1);
                if (left == right) {
                    break;
                } else if (left < right) {
                    low = mid + 1;
                } else {
                    high = mid;
                }
            }
            memo[K][N] = result;
            return result;
        }
    }
    


### Solution 3
# Basic idea

First of all, we can see to get the answer of larger floors and eggs, results
of smaller cases are useful for analysis, which leads to dynamic programming.

Next, how to define a state for each drop of getting the optimal floor? Here
we have two variables:

  * The number of eggs left to throw `i`, (0 <= i <= K)
  * The number of floors left to test `j`, (1 <= j <= N)

The answer (smallest times to get the optimal floor) can be the value of each
dp state.

Therefore, we define `dp[i][j]` as smallest number of drop to get the optimal
floor with `i` eggs and `j` floors left.

# DP formula

For the implementation of dp, we need two information:

  * base case
  * recursive relation

Base case is rather intuitive to come up with. Think of cases with smallers
eggs and floors:

    
    
    dp[1][j] = j, j = 1...N # one egg, check each floor from 1 to j
    dp[i][0] = 0, i = 1...K # no floor, no drop needed to get the optimal floor
    dp[i][1] = 1, i = 1...K # one floor, only check once
    

To get recursive relation, let's consider a test case: 3 eggs and 100 floors.  
For the next drop, I can choose floor from 1 to 100, say I choose 25.  
There are 2 possible results for this drop:

  * the egg brokes, I now have 2 eggs, and the floor to choose becomes 1~24.
  * the egg remains safe, I still have 3 eggs, and the floor to choose becomes 26~100.

Think of the worst case senerio and use the dp defination above, we can
describe the situation of getting the optical floor with choosing floor 25 for
the next drop as:  
`dp[3][100] = 1 + max(dp[2][24], dp[3][75])`

Besides floor 25, in term of next drop, we can also choose floor from 1 to
100. Each drop would be similar to the case of 25 above. The final result
would be the minimum of all possible choices of next floors to drop:

`dp[3][100] = min(..., 1 + max(dp[2][23], dp[3][76]), 1 + max(dp[2][24],
dp[3][75]), 1 + max(dp[2][25], dp[3][74]), ...)` (take floor 24, 25, 26 as
example)

To generilize the above example, the dp formula would be:  
`dp[i][j] = min(1 + max(dp[i-1][k-1], dp[i][j-k])), k = 1,2,...j`

# The brute force solution

With dp formula above, the brute force solution would be `O(kn^2)` as below:

    
    
    class Solution(object):
        def superEggDrop(self, K, N):
            """
            :type K: int
            :type N: int
            :rtype: int
            """
            dp=[[float('inf')]*(N+1) for _ in range(K+1)]
            for i in range(1, K+1):
                dp[i][0] = 0
                dp[i][1] = 1
            for j in range(1, N+1):
                dp[1][j] = j
            
            for i in range(2, K+1):
                for j in range(2, N+1):
                    for k in range(1, j+1):
                        dp[i][j] = min(dp[i][j], 1 + max(dp[i-1][k-1], dp[i][j-k]))
            return dp[K][N]
    

# Optimization1: choosing k for each dp[i][j]

The brute force solution gets TLE. To optimize, we should check for the
unnecessary iteration in the for-loops. More specifically, to get the `k` that
best fits each drop, we don't need to go over all floors from `1` to `j`. As
for a fixed `k`, `dp[i][k]` goes up as `k` increases. This means
`dp[i-1][k-1]` will increase and `dp[i][j-k]` will decrease as k goes from `1`
to `j`. The optimal value of `k` will be the middle point where the two meet.
So to get the optimal `k` value for `dp[i][j]`, we can do a binary search for
`k` from `1` to `j`.

This will save the third for-loop of `k` from `O(n)` to `O(logn)`. Total
complexity is `O(knlogn)`. Using binary seach, we can only do bottom up dp, as
shown below:

    
    
    class Solution(object):
        def superEggDrop(self, K, N):
            """
            :type K: int
            :type N: int
            :rtype: int
            """
            def dfs(i, j):
                if i==1:
                    return j
                if j==0:
                    return 0
                if j==1:
                    return 1
                if (i, j) in d:
                    return d[i, j]
                lo, hi = 0, j
                while lo < hi:
                    mid = (lo+hi)/2
                    left, right = dfs(i-1, mid-1), dfs(i, j-mid)
                    if left < right:
                        lo = mid + 1
                    else:
                        hi = mid
                res = 1 + max(dfs(i-1, lo-1), dfs(i, j-lo))
                d[i, j]=res
                return res
            
            d={}
            return dfs(K, N)
    

# Optimization2: choosing k_1...k_N for each dp[i][1...N]

To go one step further, till now, we are still finding the optimal floor `k`
from 1 to `j` for each `dp[i][j]`. But is this really the smallest range we
can narrow? In fact, we can see that the optimal floor `k` for each `dp[i][j]`
increases as `j` increases. This means that once we get the optimal `k` for
`dp[i][j]`, we can save current `k` value and start the next round of for-loop
directly, instead of initiating `k` from 0 again. In this way, in the third
for-loop, `k` will go from 1 to N only once as `j` in the second for-loop goes
from 1 to N. The total time complexity will be `O(kn)`. The code is shown
below:

    
    
    class Solution(object):
        def superEggDrop(self, K, N):
            """
            :type K: int
            :type N: int
            :rtype: int
            """
            dp=[[float('inf')]*(N+1) for _ in range(K+1)]
            for i in range(1, K+1):
                dp[i][0] = 0
                dp[i][1] = 1
            for j in range(1, N+1):
                dp[1][j] = j
                
            for i in range(2, K+1):
                k = 1
                for j in range(2, N+1):
                    while k < j+1 and dp[i][j-k] > dp[i-1][k-1]:
                        k += 1
                    dp[i][j] = 1 + dp[i-1][k-1]
            return dp[K][N]
    

# Optimization3: space complexity

Usually, we can save space complexity by one dimension if the recursive
relation of dp is based the constant length of previous states. Here, the
current line dp[i] is getting updated based on the current line and previous
line, so we can only record those two lines and update them in the iteration
process to save the space space complexity by one dimension. Final time
complexity `O(kn)`, space complexity `O(n)`. The code is shown below:

    
    
    class Solution(object):
        def superEggDrop(self, K, N):
            """
            :type K: int
            :type N: int
            :rtype: int
            """ 
            dp = range(N+1)
            for i in range(2, K+1):
                k = 1
                ndp = [0, 1] + [float('inf')]*(N-1)
                for j in range(2, N+1):
                    while k < j+1 and ndp[j-k] > dp[k-1]:
                        k += 1
                    ndp[j] = 1 + dp[k-1]
                dp = ndp
            return dp[N]
    

# Summery

Personally, I'd recommend thinking this problem through the following logic:

  1. Why dp? Under what circumstances should we use dp to solve a problem?
  2. What's the base case and recursive relation to describe a state in the problem?
  3. What's the dp formula based on the above analysis?
  4. Implement the brute force solution.
  5. Optimization: find the pattern of dp array, what iteration is unneccessary and can be saved?
  6. What's the time and space complexity? Any way to save the space complexity by one dimension?



