---
layout: post
title: 198. House Robber
---
### Question
You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each
house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you
from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security system
connected and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent
houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given a list of non-negative integers representing the amount of money of each
house, determine the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight **without
alerting the police**.

 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** [1,2,3,1]
    **Output:** 4
    **Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).
                  Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** [2,7,9,3,1]
    **Output:** 12
    **Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 2), rob house 3 (money = 9) and rob house 5 (money = 1).
                  Total amount you can rob = 2 + 9 + 1 = 12.
    

### Solution 1
There is some frustration when people publish their perfect fine-grained
algorithms without sharing any information abut how they were derived. This is
an attempt to change the situation. There is not much more explanation but
it's rather an example of higher level improvements. Converting a solution to
the next step shouldn't be as hard as attempting to come up with perfect
algorithm at first attempt.

This particular problem and most of others can be approached using the
following sequence:

  1. Find recursive relation
  2. Recursive (top-down)
  3. Recursive + memo (top-down)
  4. Iterative + memo (bottom-up)
  5. Iterative + N variables (bottom-up)

 **Step 1.** Figure out recursive relation.  
A robber has 2 options: a) rob current house `i`; b) don't rob current house.  
If an option "a" is selected it means she can't rob previous `i-1` house but
can safely proceed to the one before previous `i-2` and gets all cumulative
loot that follows.  
If an option "b" is selected the robber gets all the possible loot from
robbery of `i-1` and all the following buildings.  
So it boils down to calculating what is more profitable:

  * robbery of current house + loot from houses before the previous
  * loot from the previous house robbery and any loot captured before that

`rob(i) = Math.max( rob(i - 2) + currentHouseValue, rob(i - 1) )`

 **Step 2.** Recursive (top-down)  
Converting the recurrent relation from Step 1 shound't be very hard.

    
    
    public int rob(int[] nums) {
        return rob(nums, nums.length - 1);
    }
    private int rob(int[] nums, int i) {
        if (i < 0) {
            return 0;
        }
        return Math.max(rob(nums, i - 2) + nums[i], rob(nums, i - 1));
    }
    

This algorithm will process the same `i` multiple times and it needs
improvement. Time complexity: [to fill]

**Step 3.** Recursive + memo (top-down).

    
    
     int[] memo;
    public int rob(int[] nums) {
        memo = new int[nums.length + 1];
        Arrays.fill(memo, -1);
        return rob(nums, nums.length - 1);
    }
    
    private int rob(int[] nums, int i) {
        if (i < 0) {
            return 0;
        }
        if (memo[i] >= 0) {
            return memo[i];
        }
        int result = Math.max(rob(nums, i - 2) + nums[i], rob(nums, i - 1));
        memo[i] = result;
        return result;
    }
    

Much better, this should run in `O(n)` time. Space complexity is `O(n)` as
well, because of the recursion stack, let's try to get rid of it.

**Step 4.** Iterative + memo (bottom-up)

    
    
     public int rob(int[] nums) {
        if (nums.length == 0) return 0;
        int[] memo = new int[nums.length + 1];
        memo[0] = 0;
        memo[1] = nums[0];
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) {
            int val = nums[i];
            memo[i+1] = Math.max(memo[i], memo[i-1] + val);
        }
        return memo[nums.length];
    }
    

**Step 5.** Iterative + 2 variables (bottom-up)  
We can notice that in the previous step we use only `memo[i]` and `memo[i-1]`,
so going just 2 steps back. We can hold them in 2 variables instead. This
optimization is met in Fibonacci sequence creation and some other problems [to
paste links].

    
    
    /* the order is: prev2, prev1, num  */
    public int  rob(int[] nums) {
        if (nums.length == 0) return 0;
        int prev1 = 0;
        int prev2 = 0;
        for (int num : nums) {
            int tmp = prev1;
            prev1 = Math.max(prev2 + num, prev1);
            prev2 = tmp;
        }
        return prev1;
    }
    


### Solution 2
    
    
    #define max(a, b) ((a)>(b)?(a):(b))
    int rob(int num[], int n) {
        int a = 0;
        int b = 0;
        
        for (int i=0; i<n; i++)
        {
            if (i%2==0)
            {
                a = max(a+num[i], b);
            }
            else
            {
                b = max(a, b+num[i]);
            }
        }
        
        return max(a, b);
    }


### Solution 3
    
    
    public int rob(int[] num) {
        int[][] dp = new int[num.length + 1][2];
        for (int i = 1; i <= num.length; i++) {
            dp[i][0] = Math.max(dp[i - 1][0], dp[i - 1][1]);
            dp[i][1] = num[i - 1] + dp[i - 1][0];
        }
        return Math.max(dp[num.length][0], dp[num.length][1]);
    }
    

dp[i][1] means we rob the current house and dp[i][0] means we don't,

so it is easy to convert this to O(1) space

    
    
    public int rob(int[] num) {
        int prevNo = 0;
        int prevYes = 0;
        for (int n : num) {
            int temp = prevNo;
            prevNo = Math.max(prevNo, prevYes);
            prevYes = n + temp;
        }
        return Math.max(prevNo, prevYes);
    }



