---
layout: post
title: 174. Dungeon Game
---
### Question
The demons had captured the princess ( **P** ) and imprisoned her in the
bottom-right corner of a dungeon. The dungeon consists of M x N rooms laid out
in a 2D grid. Our valiant knight ( **K** ) was initially positioned in the
top-left room and must fight his way through the dungeon to rescue the
princess.

The knight has an initial health point represented by a positive integer. If
at any point his health point drops to 0 or below, he dies immediately.

Some of the rooms are guarded by demons, so the knight loses health (
_negative_ integers) upon entering these rooms; other rooms are either empty (
_0's_ ) or contain magic orbs that increase the knight's health ( _positive_
integers).

In order to reach the princess as quickly as possible, the knight decides to
move only rightward or downward in each step.



**Write a function to determine the knight's minimum initial health so that he
is able to rescue the princess.**

For example, given the dungeon below, the initial health of the knight must be
at least **7** if he follows the optimal path `RIGHT-> RIGHT -> DOWN -> DOWN`.

-2 (K) | -3 | 3  
---|---|---  
-5 | -10 | 1  
10 | 30 | -5 (P)  
  


**Note:**

  * The knight's health has no upper bound.
  * Any room can contain threats or power-ups, even the first room the knight enters and the bottom-right room where the princess is imprisoned.

### Solution 1
Use hp[i][j] to store the min hp needed at position (i, j), then do the
calculation from right-bottom to left-up.

Note: adding dummy row and column would make the code cleaner.

    
    
    class Solution {
    public:
        int calculateMinimumHP(vector<vector<int> > &dungeon) {
            int M = dungeon.size();
            int N = dungeon[0].size();
            // hp[i][j] represents the min hp needed at position (i, j)
            // Add dummy row and column at bottom and right side
            vector<vector<int> > hp(M + 1, vector<int>(N + 1, INT_MAX));
            hp[M][N - 1] = 1;
            hp[M - 1][N] = 1;
            for (int i = M - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                for (int j = N - 1; j >= 0; j--) {
                    int need = min(hp[i + 1][j], hp[i][j + 1]) - dungeon[i][j];
                    hp[i][j] = need <= 0 ? 1 : need;
                }
            }
            return hp[0][0];
        }
    };


### Solution 2
    
    
    public int calculateMinimumHP(int[][] dungeon) {
        if (dungeon == null || dungeon.length == 0 || dungeon[0].length == 0) return 0;
        
        int m = dungeon.length;
        int n = dungeon[0].length;
        
        int[][] health = new int[m][n];
    
        health[m - 1][n - 1] = Math.max(1 - dungeon[m - 1][n - 1], 1);
    
        for (int i = m - 2; i >= 0; i--) {            
            health[i][n - 1] = Math.max(health[i + 1][n - 1] - dungeon[i][n - 1], 1);
        }
    
        for (int j = n - 2; j >= 0; j--) {
            health[m - 1][j] = Math.max(health[m - 1][j + 1] - dungeon[m - 1][j], 1);
        }
    
        for (int i = m - 2; i >= 0; i--) {
            for (int j = n - 2; j >= 0; j--) {
                int down = Math.max(health[i + 1][j] - dungeon[i][j], 1);
                int right = Math.max(health[i][j + 1] - dungeon[i][j], 1);
                health[i][j] = Math.min(right, down);
            }
        }
    
        return health[0][0];
    }


### Solution 3
<http://leetcodesolution.blogspot.com/2015/01/leetcode-dungeon-game.html>

seems pretty simple... and easy to understand explanations...

It is easy to know that at grid P, since " at any point his health point drops
to 0 or below, he dies immediately", the remaining health value should be at
least 1, that is, initialHealth + dungeon >= 1, we have initialHealth = max(1,
1 - dungeon[i][j]). (Notice, at any grid, the initial health should be at
least 1 (for example, test case [1,0,0] require initial health 1 even though
it has positive remaining health at grid[0][1] and grid[0][2])  
Similarly, to satisfy the initial health of dungeon[i][j], the initial health
of dungeon[i-1][j] (or dungeon[i][j-1]) should be at least
initialHealth[i-1][j] + dungeon[i-1][j] = initialHealth[i][j], that is,
initialHealth[i][j] = initialHealth[i][j] - dungeon[i-1][j].  
In addition, if grid[i][j] can go both grid[i+1][j] and grid[i][j+1] to P, we
should choose a path with less initial health between grid[i+1][j] and
grid[i][j+1] since it require less initial health of grid[i][j].  
We can simply code the solution by having the dynamic programming equations.

    
    
         int calculateMinimumHP(vector &dungeon) {
        int m = dungeon.size();
        int n = dungeon[0].size();
        vector minInitHealth(m, vector<int>(n,0));
        for(int i=m-1; i>=0; i--)
        {
            for (int j=n-1; j>=0; j--)
            {
                if (i == m-1 && j == n-1)
                {
                    minInitHealth[i][j] = max(1, 1 - dungeon[i][j]);
                }  
                else if (i == m-1)
                {
                    minInitHealth[i][j] = max(1, minInitHealth[i][j+1] - dungeon[i][j]);
                }  
                else if (j == n-1)
                {
                    minInitHealth[i][j] = max(1, minInitHealth[i+1][j] - dungeon[i][j]);
                }  
                else
                {
                    minInitHealth[i][j] = max(1, min(minInitHealth[i+1][j],minInitHealth[i][j+1]) - dungeon[i][j]);
                }  
            }
        }
        
        return  minInitHealth[0][0];
    }



