---
layout: post
title: 1086. Divisor Game
---
### Question
Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.

Initially, there is a number `N` on the chalkboard.  On each player's turn,
that player makes a _move_  consisting of:

  * Choosing any `x` with `0 < x < N` and `N % x == 0`.
  * Replacing the number `N` on the chalkboard with `N - x`.

Also, if a player cannot make a move, they lose the game.

Return `True` if and only if Alice wins the game, assuming both players play
optimally.



 **Example 1:**

    
    
     **Input:** 2
    **Output:** true
    **Explanation:** Alice chooses 1, and Bob has no more moves.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    **Input:** 3
    **Output:** false
    **Explanation:** Alice chooses 1, Bob chooses 1, and Alice has no more moves.
    



 **Note:**

  1. `1 <= N <= 1000`

### Solution 1
prove it by two steps:

  1. if Alice will lose for N, then Alice will must win for N+1, since Alice can first just make N decrease 1.
  2. for any odd number N, it only has odd factor, so after the first move, it will be an even number

let's check the inference  
fisrt N = 1, Alice lose. then Alice will must win for 2.  
if N = 3, since all even number(2) smaller than 3 will leads Alice win, so
Alice will lose for 3  
3 lose -> 4 win  
all even number(2,4) smaller than 5 will leads Alice win, so Alice will lose
for 5  
...

Therefore, Alice will always win for even number, lose for odd number.


### Solution 2
##  **Conclusion**

If `N` is even, can win.  
If `N` is odd, will lose.

##  **Recursive Prove （Top-down)**

  1. If `N` is even.  
We can choose `x = 1`.  
The opponent will get N - 1, which is a odd.  
Reduce to the case odd and he will lose.

  2. If `N` is odd,  
2.1 If `N = 1`, lose directly.  
2.2 We have to choose an odd `x`.  
The opponent will get N - x, which is a even.  
Reduce to the case even and he will win.

  3. So the N will change odd and even alternatively until N = 1.

##  **Mathematical Induction Prove （Bottom-up)**

  1. `N = 1`, lose directly
  2. `N = 2`, will win choosing `x = 1`.
  3. `N = 3`, must lose choosing `x = 1`.
  4. `N = 4`, will win choosing `x = 1`.

....

For N <= n, we have find that:  
If `N` is even, can win.  
If `N` is odd, will lose.

 **For the case`N = n + 1`**  
 **If`N` is even** , we can win choosing `x = 1`,  
give the opponent an odd number `N - 1 = n`,  
force him to lose,  
because we have found that all odd `N <= n` will lose.

 **If`N` is odd** , there is no even `x` that `N % x == 0`.  
As a result, we give the opponent a even number `N - x`,  
and the opponent can win,  
because we have found that all even `N <= n` can win.

Now we prove that, for all `N <= n`,  
If `N` is even, can win.  
If `N` is odd, will lose.

 **Java/C++:**

    
    
             return N % 2 == 0;
    

**Python:**

    
    
             return N % 2 == 0
    


### Solution 3
    
    
    class Solution:
    	def divisorGame(self, N: int) -> bool:
    		return N % 2 == 0
    

The player who make action on even always win as he can always choose 1 and
the second player will not be able to find divisor to leave the second player
on odd.  
All divisors of odd numbers are also odd which gives even number after
substraction. From even number it's enough to choose 1 and the situation
repeats.  
In the end the "odd" player always make action on 3 and finally lose the game.

I hope I helped you in some way. If you like this solution, I'll be very happy
if you click "Star" on Github:  
<https://github.com/JBielan/leetcode-python>

As well feel free to follow my account for daily coding solutions and machine-
learning/data-science projects:  
<https://github.com/JBielan>

May the code be with you!



